Abstract
The new direction in Maya archaeology is toward achieving a
 greater understanding of people and their roles and their relations in
 the past. To answer emerging humanistic questions about ancient
 people's lives Mayanists are increasingly making use of new and
 existing scientific methods from archaeology and other disciplines.
 Maya archaeology is bridging the divide between the humanities and
 sciences to answer questions about ancient people previously considered
 beyond the realm of archaeological knowledge.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of genetic variation among modern individuals is
 providing insight into prehistoric events. Comparisons of levels and
 patterns of genetic diversity with the predictions of models based on
 archeological evidence suggest that the spread of early farmers from
 the Levant was probably the main episode in the European population
 history, but that both older and more recent processes have left
 recognizable traces in the current gene pool.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using representation-theoretic methods, we determine the spectrum
 of the 2 × 2 system
 
 with A, B ∈ Mat2(ℝ)
 constant matrices such that A =
 tA > 0 (or <0), B
 = −tB ≠ 0, and the Hermitian matrix
 A + iB positive (or negative) definite. We
 also give results that generalize (in a possible direction) the main
 construction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent advances in cDNA and oligonucleotide DNA arrays have made it
 possible to measure the abundance of mRNA transcripts for many genes
 simultaneously. The analysis of such experiments is nontrivial because
 of large data size and many levels of variation introduced at different
 stages of the experiments. The analysis is further complicated by the
 large differences that may exist among different probes used to
 interrogate the same gene. However, an attractive feature of
 high-density oligonucleotide arrays such as those produced by
 photolithography and inkjet technology is the standardization of chip
 manufacturing and hybridization process. As a result, probe-specific
 biases, although significant, are highly reproducible and predictable,
 and their adverse effect can be reduced by proper modeling and analysis
 methods. Here, we propose a statistical model for the probe-level data,
 and develop model-based estimates for gene expression indexes. We also
 present model-based methods for identifying and handling
 cross-hybridizing probes and contaminating array regions. Applications
 of these results will be presented elsewhere.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The new direction in Maya archaeology is toward achieving a
 greater understanding of people and their roles and their relations in
 the past. To answer emerging humanistic questions about ancient
 people's lives Mayanists are increasingly making use of new and
 existing scientific methods from archaeology and other disciplines.
 Maya archaeology is bridging the divide between the humanities and
 sciences to answer questions about ancient people previously considered
 beyond the realm of archaeological knowledge.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of genetic variation among modern individuals is
 providing insight into prehistoric events. Comparisons of levels and
 patterns of genetic diversity with the predictions of models based on
 archeological evidence suggest that the spread of early farmers from
 the Levant was probably the main episode in the European population
 history, but that both older and more recent processes have left
 recognizable traces in the current gene pool.
DOC DONE!Abstract
2-Aminopurine (2AP) is a fluorescent analog of guanosine and
 adenosine and has been used to probe nucleic acid structure and
 dynamics. Its spectral features in nucleic acids have been interpreted
 phenomenologically, in the absence of a rigorous electronic description
 of the context-dependence of 2AP fluorescence. Now, by using
 time-dependent density functional theory, we describe the excited-state
 properties of 2AP in a B-form dinucleotide stacked with guanosine,
 adenosine, cytosine, or thymine. Calculations predict that 2AP
 fluorescence is quenched statically when stacked with purines, because
 of mixing of the molecular orbitals in the ground state. In contrast,
 quenching is predicted to be dynamic when 2AP is stacked with
 pyrimidines, because of formation of a low-lying dark excited state.
 The different quenching mechanisms will result in different
 experimentally measured fluorescence lifetimes and quantum yields.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a severe muscle wasting
 disease arising from defects in the dystrophin gene, typically nonsense
 or frameshift mutations, that preclude the synthesis of a functional
 protein. A milder, allelic version of the disease, Becker muscular
 dystrophy, generally arises from in-frame deletions that allow
 synthesis of a shorter but still semifunctional protein. Therapies to
 introduce functional dystrophin into dystrophic tissue through either
 cell or gene replacement have not been successful to date. We report an
 alternative approach where 2′-O-methyl antisense
 oligoribonucleotides have been used to modify processing of the
 dystrophin pre-mRNA in the mdx mouse model of DMD. By
 targeting 2′-O-methyl antisense oligoribonucleotides to
 block motifs involved in normal dystrophin pre-mRNA splicing, we
 induced excision of exon 23, and the mdx nonsense
 mutation, without disrupting the reading frame. Exon 23 skipping was
 first optimized in vitro in transfected
 H-2Kb-tsA58 mdx myoblasts and
 then induced in vivo. Immunohistochemical staining
 demonstrated the synthesis and correct subsarcolemmal localization of
 dystrophin and γ-sarcoglycan in the mdx mouse after
 intramuscular delivery of antisense oligoribonucleotide:liposome
 complexes. This approach should reduce the severity of DMD by allowing
 a dystrophic gene transcript to be modified, such that it can be
 translated into a Becker-dystrophin-like protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The regeneration of pancreatic islet β cells is important
 for the prevention and cure of diabetes mellitus. We
 have demonstrated that the administration of poly(ADP-ribose)
 synthetase/polymerase (PARP) inhibitors such as nicotinamide to 90%
 depancreatized rats induces islet regeneration. From the regenerating
 islet-derived cDNA library, we have isolated Reg
 (regenerating gene) and demonstrated that Reg protein induces β-cell
 replication via the Reg receptor and ameliorates experimental diabetes.
 However, the mechanism by which Reg gene is activated in
 β cells has been elusive. In this study, we found that the combined
 addition of IL-6 and dexamethasone induced the expression of
 Reg gene in β cells and that PARP inhibitors enhanced
 the expression. Reporter gene assays revealed that the −81 ≈
 −70 region (TGCCCCTCCCAT) of the Reg gene promoter is a
 cis-element for the expression of Reg
 gene. Gel mobility shift assays showed that the active transcriptional
 DNA/protein complex was formed by the stimulation with IL-6 and
 dexamethasone. Surprisingly, PARP bound to the
 cis-element and was involved in the active
 transcriptional DNA/protein complex. The DNA/protein complex
 formation was inhibited depending on the autopoly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of
 PARP in the complex. Thus, PARP inhibitors enhance the DNA/protein
 complex formation for Reg gene transcription and
 stabilize the complex by inhibiting the autopoly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of
 PARP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The minichromosome maintenance (Mcm) proteins 2–7 are required for
 both the initiation and elongation steps of chromosomal DNA
 replication. Previous studies have shown that the Mcm complex
 consisting of the Mcm 4, 6, and 7 proteins contains 3′ to 5′ DNA
 helicase activity with limited processivity (displacing duplex DNA
 regions up to 30 nt). In this report, we show that the presence of both
 5′ and 3′ single-stranded tails in DNA helicase substrates is essential
 for the processive helicase activity of the Mcm complex. The presence
 of both 5′ and 3′ tails facilitated the formation of double
 heterohexameric complexes of Mcm4/6/7 on substrate DNA, which
 appeared to be essential for the processive helicase activity. The
 double heterohexameric complex of Mcm4/6/7, in the presence of a
 single-strand DNA binding protein, is capable of unwinding duplex DNA
 region of about 600 bp in length. These results support the hypothesis
 that the Mcm4/6/7 complex can function as a replication helicase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Infections with parasitic helminths are important causes of
 morbidity and mortality worldwide. New drugs that are parasite specific
 and minimally toxic to the host are needed to counter these infections
 effectively. Here we report the finding of a previously unidentified
 compound, nafuredin, from Aspergillus niger. Nafuredin
 inhibits NADH-fumarate reductase (complexes I + II) activity, a unique
 anaerobic electron transport system in helminth mitochondria, at nM
 order. It competes for the quinone-binding site in complex I and shows
 high selective toxicity to the helminth enzyme. Moreover, nafuredin
 exerts anthelmintic activity against Haemonchus
 contortus in in vivo trials with sheep. Thus,
 our study indicates that mitochondrial complex I is a promising target
 for chemotherapy, and nafuredin is a potential lead compound as an
 anthelmintic isolated from microorganisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RNase E isolated from Escherichia coli is contained
 in a multicomponent “degradosome” complex with other proteins
 implicated in RNA decay. Earlier work has shown that the C-terminal
 region of RNase E is a scaffold for the binding of degradosome
 components and has identified specific RNase E segments necessary for
 its interaction with polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase), RhlB RNA
 helicase, and enolase. Here, we report electron microscopy studies that
 use immunogold labeling and freeze–fracture methods to show that
 degradosomes exist in vivo in E. coli as
 multicomponent structures that associate with the cytoplasmic membrane
 via the N-terminal region of RNase E. Whereas PNPase and enolase are
 present in E. coli in large excess relative to RNase E
 and therefore are detected in cells largely as molecules unlinked to
 the RNase E scaffold, immunogold labeling and biochemical analyses show
 that helicase is present in approximately equimolar amounts to RNase E
 at all cell growth stages. Our findings, which establish the existence
 and cellular location of RNase E-based degradosomes in
 vivo in E. coli, also suggest that RNA
 processing and decay may occur at specific sites within cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Metal-catalyzed oxidation results in loss of function and
 structural alteration of proteins. The oxidative process affects a
 variety of side amino acid groups, some of which are converted to
 carbonyl compounds. Spectrophotometric measurement of these moieties,
 after their reaction with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, is a simple,
 accurate technique that has been widely used to reveal increased levels
 of protein carbonyls in aging and disease. We have initiated studies
 aimed at elucidating the chemical nature of protein carbonyls. Methods
 based on gas chromatography/mass spectrometry with isotopic dilution
 were developed for the quantitation of glutamic and aminoadipic
 semialdehydes after their reduction to hydroxyaminovaleric and
 hydroxyaminocaproic acids. Analysis of model proteins oxidized
 in vitro by Cu2+/ascorbate revealed that
 these two compounds constitute the majority of protein carbonyls
 generated. Glutamic and aminoadipic semialdehydes were also detected in
 rat liver proteins, where they constitute ≈60% of the total protein
 carbonyl value. Aminoadipic semialdehyde was also measured in protein
 extracts from HeLa cells, and its level increased as a consequence of
 oxidative stress to cell cultures. These results indicate that glutamic
 and aminoadipic semialdehydes are the main carbonyl products of
 metal-catalyzed oxidation of proteins, and that this reaction is a
 major route leading to the generation of protein carbonyls in
 biological samples.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe a rapid and general technology working entirely
 in vitro to evolve either the affinity or the stability
 of ligand-binding proteins, depending on the chosen selection pressure.
 Tailored in vitro selection strategies based on ribosome
 display were combined with in vitro diversification by
 DNA shuffling to evolve either the off-rate or thermodynamic stability
 of single-chain Fv antibody fragments (scFvs). To demonstrate the
 potential of this method, we chose to optimize two proteins already
 possessing favorable properties. A scFv with an initial affinity of 1.1
 nM (koff at 4°C of 10−4
 s−1) was improved 30-fold by the use of off-rate
 selections over a period of several days. As a second example, a
 generic selection strategy for improved stability exploited the
 property of ribosome display that the conditions can be altered under
 which the folding of the displayed protein occurs. We used decreasing
 redox potentials in the selection step to select for molecules stable
 in the absence of disulfide bonds. They could be functionally expressed
 in the reducing cytoplasm, and, when allowed to form disulfides again,
 their stability had increased to 54 kJ/mol from an initial value of
 24 kJ/mol. Sequencing revealed that the evolved mutant proteins had
 used different strategies of residue changes to adapt to the selection
 pressure. Therefore, by a combination of randomization and appropriate
 selection strategies, an in vitro evolution of protein
 properties in a predictable direction is possible.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A functional human NADH-dependent cytochrome P450 system has been
 developed by altering the cofactor preference of human NADPH cytochrome
 P450 reductase (CPR), the redox partner for P450s. This has been
 achieved by a single amino acid change of the conserved aromatic amino
 acid Trp-676, which covers the re-side of the FAD isoalloxazine ring in
 the nicotinamide-binding site. Of the mutations made, the substitution
 of Trp-676 with alanine (W676A) resulted in a functional NADH-dependent
 enzyme, which catalyzed the reduction of cytochrome c
 and ferricyanide as well as facilitated the metabolism of
 7-ethoxyresorufin by CYP1A2. Kinetic analysis measuring cytochrome
 c activity revealed that the NADH-dependent
 kcat of W676A is equivalent (90%) to the
 NADPH-dependent kcat of the wild-type
 enzyme, with W676A having an approximately 1,000-fold higher
 specificity for NADH. The apparent
 KMNADPH and
 KMNADH values of W676A are 80- and
 150-fold decreased, respectively. In accordance with structural data,
 which show a bipartite binding mode of NADPH, substitution of Trp-676
 does not affect 2′-AMP binding as seen by the inhibition of both
 wild-type CPR and the W676A mutant. Furthermore, NADPH was a potent
 inhibitor of the W676A NADH-dependent cytochrome c
 reduction and CYP1A2 activity. Overall, the results show that Trp-676
 of human CPR plays a major role in cofactor discrimination, and
 substitution of this conserved aromatic residue with alanine results in
 an efficient NADH-dependent cytochrome P450 system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Trichostatin A (TSA) and trapoxin (TPX) are potent inhibitors of
 histone deacetylases (HDACs). TSA is proposed to block the catalytic
 reaction by chelating a zinc ion in the active-site pocket through its
 hydroxamic acid group. On the other hand, the epoxyketone is
 suggested to be the functional group of TPX capable of alkylating the
 enzyme. We synthesized a novel TPX analogue containing a hydroxamic
 acid instead of the epoxyketone. The hybrid compound cyclic hydroxamic
 acid-containing peptide (CHAP) 1 inhibited HDAC1 at low nanomolar
 concentrations. The HDAC1 inhibition by CHAP1 was reversible as it was
 by TSA, in contrast to the irreversible inhibition by TPX. CHAP with an
 aliphatic chain length of five, which corresponded to that of
 acetylated lysine, was stronger than those with other lengths. These
 results suggest that TPX is a substrate mimic and that the replacement
 of the epoxyketone with the hydroxamic acid converted TPX to an
 inhibitor chelating the zinc like TSA. Interestingly, HDAC6, but not
 HDAC1 or HDAC4, was resistant to TPX and CHAP1, whereas TSA inhibited
 these HDACs to a similar extent. HDAC6 inhibition by TPX at a high
 concentration was reversible, probably because HDAC6 is not alkylated
 by TPX. We further synthesized the counterparts of all known naturally
 occurring cyclic tetrapeptides containing the epoxyketone. HDAC1 was
 highly sensitive to all these CHAPs much more than HDAC6, indicating
 that the structure of the cyclic tetrapeptide framework affects the
 target enzyme specificity. These results suggest that CHAP is a unique
 lead to develop isoform-specific HDAC inhibitors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Agonist-dependent desensitization and internalization of G
 protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) are mediated by the binding of
 arrestins to phosphorylated receptors. The affinity of arrestins for
 the phosphorylated GPCR regulates the ability of the internalized
 receptor to be dephosphorylated and recycled back to the plasma
 membrane. In this study, we show that the naturally occurring loss
 of function vasopressin receptor mutation R137H, which is associated
 with familial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, induces constitutive
 arrestin-mediated desensitization. In contrast to the wild-type
 vasopressin receptor, the nonsignaling R137H receptor is phosphorylated
 and sequestered in arrestin-associated intracellular vesicles even in
 the absence of agonist. Eliminating molecular determinants on the
 receptor that promote high affinity arrestin–receptor interaction
 reestablishes plasma membrane localization and the ability of the
 mutated receptors to signal. These findings suggest that unregulated
 desensitization can contribute to the etiology of a GPCR-based disease,
 implying that pharmacological targeting of GPCR desensitization may be
 therapeutically beneficial.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The 207-kDa polyketide synthase (PKS) module (residues 1–1895) and
 the 143-kDa nonribosomal peptidyl synthetase (NRPS) module (1896–3163)
 of the 350-kDa HMWP1 subunit of yersiniabactin synthetase have been
 expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli in
 soluble forms to characterize the acyl carrier protein (ACP) domain of
 the PKS module and the homologous peptidyl carrier protein
 (PCP3) domain of the NRPS module. The apo-ACP and PCP
 domains could be selectively posttranslationally primed by the
 E. coli ACPS and EntD phosphopantetheinyl transferases
 (PPTases), respectively, whereas the Bacillus subtilis
 PPTase Sfp primed both carrier protein domains in vitro
 or during in vivo coexpression. The holo-NRPS module but
 not the holo-PKS module was then selectively aminoacylated with
 cysteine by the adenylation domain embedded in the HMWP2 subunit of
 yersiniabactin synthetase, acting in trans. When the
 acyltransferase (AT) domain of HMWP1 was analyzed for its ability to
 malonylate the holo carrier protein domains, in cis
 acylation was first detected. Then, in trans
 malonylation of the excised holo-ACP or holo-PCP3–TE
 fragments by HMWP1 showed both were malonylated with a 3:1 catalytic
 efficiency ratio, showing a promiscuity to the AT domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Direct structural information obtained for many proteins supports
 the following conclusions. The amino acid sequences of proteins can
 stabilize not only the final native state but also a small set of
 discrete partially folded native-like intermediates. Intermediates are
 formed in steps that use as units the cooperative secondary structural
 elements of the native protein. Earlier intermediates guide the
 addition of subsequent units in a process of sequential
 stabilization mediated by native-like tertiary interactions.
 The resulting stepwise self-assembly process automatically constructs a
 folding pathway, whether linear or branched. These conclusions are
 drawn mainly from hydrogen exchange-based methods, which can depict the
 structure of infinitesimally populated folding intermediates at
 equilibrium and kinetic intermediates with subsecond lifetimes. Other
 kinetic studies show that the polypeptide chain enters the folding
 pathway after an initial free-energy-uphill conformational search. The
 search culminates by finding a native-like topology that can support
 forward (native-like) folding in a free-energy-downhill manner. This
 condition automatically defines an initial transition state, the search
 for which sets the maximum possible (two-state) folding rate. It also
 extends the sequential stabilization strategy, which depends on a
 native-like context, to the first step in the folding process. Thus the
 native structure naturally generates its own folding pathway. The same
 amino acid code that translates into the final equilibrium native
 structure—by virtue of propensities, patterning, secondary structural
 cueing, and tertiary context—also produces its kinetic
 accessibility.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) have been derived from the
 inner cell mass cells of blastocysts (embryonic stem cells) and
 primordial germ cells of the developing gonadal ridge (embryonic germ
 cells). Like their mouse counterparts, hPSCs can be maintained in
 culture in an undifferentiated state and, upon differentiation,
 generate a wide variety of cell types. Embryoid body (EB) formation is
 a requisite step in the process of in vitro
 differentiation of these stem cells and has been used to derive neurons
 and glia, vascular endothelium, hematopoietic cells, cardiomyocytes,
 and glucose-responsive insulin-producing cells from mouse PSCs. EBs
 generated from human embryonic germ cell cultures have also been found
 to contain a wide variety of cell types, including neural cells,
 vascular endothelium, muscle cells, and endodermal derivatives. Here,
 we report the isolation and culture of cells from human EBs as well as
 a characterization of their gene expression during growth in several
 different culture environments. These heterogeneous cell cultures are
 capable of robust and long-term [>70 population doublings (PD)]
 proliferation in culture, have normal karyotypes, and can be
 cryopreserved, clonally isolated, and stably transfected. Cell cultures
 and clonal lines retain a broad pattern of gene expression including
 simultaneous expression of markers normally associated with cells of
 neural, vascular/hematopoietic, muscle, and endoderm lineages. The
 growth and expression characteristics of these EB-derived cells suggest
 that they are relatively uncommitted precursor or progenitor cells.
 EB-derived cells may be suited to studies of human cell differentiation
 and may play a role in future transplantation therapies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) can associate with
 integrin αvβ3 on the surface of endothelial
 cells, thereby promoting vascular invasion. Here, we describe an
 organic molecule (TSRI265) selected for its ability to bind to integrin
 αvβ3 and block
 αvβ3 interaction with MMP2. Although
 disrupting αvβ3/MMP2 complex formation,
 TSRI265 has no effect on αvβ3 binding to
 its extracellular matrix ligand vitronectin and does not influence MMP2
 activation or catalytic activity directly. However, TSRI265 acts as a
 potent antiangiogenic agent and thereby blocks tumor growth in
 vivo. These findings suggest that activated MMP2 does not
 facilitate vascular invasion during angiogenesis unless it forms a
 complex with αvβ3 on the endothelial cell
 surface. By disrupting endothelial cell invasion without broadly
 suppressing cell adhesion or MMP function, the use of compounds such as
 TSRI265 may provide a novel therapeutic approach for diseases
 associated with uncontrolled angiogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The role of PKN, a fatty acid- and Rho small GTPase-activated
 protein kinase, in cell-cycle regulation was analyzed. Microinjection
 of the active form of PKN into a Xenopus embryo caused
 cleavage arrest, whereas normal cell division proceeded in the control
 embryo microinjected with buffer or the inactive form of PKN. Exogenous
 addition of the active form of PKN delayed mitotic timing in
 Xenopus egg cycling extracts judging by morphology of
 sperm nuclei and Cdc2/cyclin B histone H1 kinase activity. The
 kinase-negative form of PKN did not affect the timing, suggesting that
 delayed mitotic timing depends on the kinase activity of PKN. The
 dephosphorylation of Tyr-15 of Cdc2 was also delayed in correlation
 with Cdc2/cyclin B histone H1 kinase activation in extracts
 containing active PKN. The Cdc25C activity for the dephosphorylation of
 Tyr-15 in Cdc2 was suppressed by pretreatment with the active form of
 PKN. Furthermore, PKN efficiently phosphorylated Cdc25C in
 vitro, indicating that PKN directly inhibits Cdc25C activity by
 phosphorylation. These results suggest that PKN plays a significant
 role in the control of mitotic timing by inhibition of Cdc25C.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expression of the breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene
 BRCA1 is down-regulated in sporadic breast and ovarian
 cancer cases. Therefore, the identification of genes involved in the
 regulation of BRCA1 expression might lead to new
 insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of these tumors. In the
 present study, an “inverse genomics” approach based on a
 randomized ribozyme gene library was applied to identify cellular genes
 regulating BRCA1 expression. A ribozyme gene library
 with randomized target recognition sequences was introduced into human
 ovarian cancer-derived cells stably expressing a selectable marker
 [enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP)] under the control of the
 BRCA1 promoter. Cells in which BRCA1
 expression was upregulated by particular ribozymes were selected
 through their concomitant increase in EGFP expression. The cellular
 target gene of one ribozyme was identified to be the dominant negative
 transcriptional regulator Id4. Modulation of
 Id4 expression resulted in inversely regulated
 expression of BRCA1. In addition, increase in
 Id4 expression was associated with the ability of cells
 to exhibit anchorage-independent growth, demonstrating the biological
 relevance of this gene. Our data suggest that Id4 is a
 crucial gene regulating BRCA1 expression and might
 therefore be important for the BRCA1 regulatory pathway
 involved in the pathogenesis of sporadic breast and ovarian cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The oncoproteins P3k (homolog of the catalytic subunit of class IA
 phosphoinositide 3-kinase) and Akt (protein kinase B) induce oncogenic
 transformation of chicken embryo fibroblasts. The transformed cells
 show constitutive phosphorylation of the positive regulator of
 translation p70S6 kinase (S6K) and of the eukaryotic initiation factor
 4E-BP1 binding protein (4E-BP1), a negative regulator of translation.
 Phosphorylation activates S6K and inactivates 4E-BP1. A mutant of Akt
 that retains kinase activity but does not induce phosphorylation of S6K
 or of 4E-BP1 fails to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts, suggesting
 a correlation between the oncogenicity of Akt and phosphorylation of
 S6K and 4E-BP1. The macrolide antibiotic rapamycin effectively blocks
 oncogenic transformation induced by either P3k or Akt but does not
 reduce the transforming activity of 11 other oncoproteins. Rapamycin
 inhibits the kinase mTOR, an important regulator of translation, and
 this inhibition requires binding of the antibiotic to the immunophilin
 FKBP12. Displacement of rapamycin from FKBP12 relieves the inhibition
 of mTOR and also restores P3k-induced transformation. These data are in
 accord with the hypothesis that transformation by P3k or Akt involves
 intervention in translational controls.
DOC DONE!Abstract
PC-cell-derived growth factor (PCDGF) is an 88-kDa glycoprotein
 corresponding to the granulin precursor. We have reported that PCDGF
 was expressed in human breast cancer cells. In estrogen-receptor
 positive cells, 17-β-estradiol (E2) transcriptionally
 stimulated PCDGF expression in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. We
 demonstrate here that PCDGF mediates the mitogenic effect of
 E2 in MCF-7 cells. PCDGF substituted for E2 to
 stimulate DNA synthesis. The E2 mitogenic effect was
 inhibited in a dose-dependent fashion by anti-PCDGF neutralizing
 antibody. Inhibition of PCDGF expression by antisense transfection also
 inhibited the E2 mitogenic effect. In contrast,
 overexpression of PCDGF in MCF-7 cells resulted in cells that were able
 to proliferate in the absence of estrogen and were tamoxifen resistant.
 The PCDGF signaling pathway was examined. Like E2, PCDGF
 stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase activity. PCDGF could
 substitute for E2 in stimulating cyclin D1 expression. The
 cyclin D1 stimulation by E2 was 50% inhibited by
 anti-PCDGF antibody. In contrast, PCDGF did not stimulate
 c-myc expression, another molecular target of
 E2. We conclude that autocrine PCDGF mediates the
 E2 mitogenic effect via stimulation of cyclin D1. These
 studies provide information on estrogen action and identify an
 autocrine molecular target in human breast cancer cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of phospholipase C in nonexcitable cells causes the
 release of calcium (Ca2+) from intracellular stores and
 activation of Ca2+ influx by means of Ca2+
 release-activated channels (ICRAC) in the plasma membrane.
 The molecular identity and the mechanism of ICRAC channel
 activation are poorly understood. Using the patch–clamp technique,
 here we describe the plasma membrane Ca2+ channels in human
 carcinoma A431 cells, which can be activated by extracellular UTP, by
 depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores after exposure to
 the Ca2+-pump inhibitor thapsigargin, or by loading the
 cells with Ca2+ chelator
 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetate.
 The observed channels display the same conductance and gating
 properties as previously described Imin channels, but have
 significantly lower conductance for monovalent cations than the
 ICRAC channels. Thus, we concluded that the
 depletion-activated Ca2+ current in A431 cells is supported
 by ICRAC-like (ICRACL) channels, identical to
 Imin. We further demonstrated synergism in activation of
 ICRACL Ca2+ channels by extracellular UTP and
 intracellular inositol (1,4,5)-triphosphate (IP3),
 apparently because of reduction in phosphatidylinositol
 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) levels in the patch. Prolonged
 exposure of patches to thapsigargin renders ICRACL
 Ca2+ channels unresponsive to IP3 but still
 available to activation by the combined action of IP3 and
 anti-PIP2 antibody. Based on these data, we concluded that
 phospholipase C-mediated and store-operated Ca2+ influx
 pathways in A431 cells converge on the same ICRACL
 Ca2+ channel, which can be modulated by PIP2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian bladder epithelium functions as an effective permeability
 barrier. We demonstrate here that this epithelium can also function as
 a secretory tissue directly involved in modifying urinary protein
 composition. Our data indicate that normal bovine urothelium
 synthesizes, as its major differentiation products, two well-known
 proteases: tissue-type plasminogen activator and urokinase, as well as
 a serine protease inhibitor, PP5. Moreover, we demonstrate that the
 urothelium secretes these proteins in a polarized fashion into the
 urine via a cAMP- and calcium-regulated pathway. Urinary plasminogen
 activators of ruminants are therefore urothelium derived rather then
 kidney derived as in some other species; this heterogeneity may have
 evolved in response to different physiological or dietary factors. In
 conjunction with our recent finding that transgenic mouse urothelium
 can secrete ectopically expressed human growth hormone into the urine,
 our data establish that normal mammalian urothelium can function not
 only as a permeability barrier but also as a secretor of urinary
 proteins that can play physiological or pathological roles in the
 urinary tract.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the growth plate of endochondral bones, parathyroid hormone
 (PTH)-related peptide (PTHrP) regulates the rate of chondrocyte
 maturation from prehypertrophic chondrocytes to hypertrophic
 chondrocytes. Using an antibody specific for Sox9 phosphorylated at
 serine 181 (S181), one of the two consensus protein kinase
 A phosphorylation sites of Sox9, we showed that the addition of PTHrP
 strongly increased the phosphorylation of SOX9 in COS7 cells
 transfected with both SOX9- and PTH/PTHrP receptor-expressing
 vectors. PTHrP also increased the SOX9-dependent activity of
 chondrocyte-specific enhancers in the gene for type II collagen
 (Col2a1) in transient transfection experiments. This
 increased enhancer activity did not occur with a Sox9 mutant harboring
 serine-to-alanine substitutions in its two consensus protein kinase A
 phosphorylation sites. Consistent with these results, PTHrP also
 increased Col2a1 mRNA levels in rat chondrosarcoma cells
 as well as 10T1/2 mesenchymal cells transfected with a PTH/PTHrP
 receptor expressing plasmid. No phosphorylation of Sox9 at
 S181 was detected in prehypertrophic chondrocytes of the
 growth plate or any chondrocytes of PTH/PTHrP receptor null mutants.
 In contrast in wild-type mouse embryos, previous immunohistochemistry
 experiments indicated that Sox9 phosphorylated at S181 was
 detected almost exclusively in chondrocytes of the prehypertrophic
 zone. Sox9, regardless of the phosphorylation state, was present in all
 chondrocytes of both genotypes except hypertrophic chondrocytes. Our
 results indicated that Sox9 is a target of PTHrP signaling in
 prehypertrophic chondrocytes in the growth plate. We hypothesize that
 Sox9 mediates at least some effects of PTHrP in the growth plate and
 that the PTHrP-dependent increased transcriptional activity of Sox9
 helps maintain the chondrocyte phenotype of cells in the
 prehypertrophic zone and inhibits their maturation to hypertrophic
 chondrocytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutual trophic interactions between contiguous habitats have
 remained poorly understood despite their potential significance for
 community maintenance in ecological landscapes. In a deciduous forest
 and stream ecotone, aquatic insect emergence peaked around spring, when
 terrestrial invertebrate biomass was low. In contrast, terrestrial
 invertebrate input to the stream occurred primarily during summer, when
 aquatic invertebrate biomass was nearly at its lowest. Such reciprocal,
 across-habitat prey flux alternately subsidized both forest birds and
 stream fishes, accounting for 25.6% and 44.0% of the annual total
 energy budget of the bird and fish assemblages, respectively. Seasonal
 contrasts between allochthonous prey supply and in situ
 prey biomass determine the importance of reciprocal subsidies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In mammals, Robertsonian (Rb) translocation (the joining of
 two telo/acrocentric chromosomes at their centromere to form a
 metacentric) is the most effective process in chromosomal evolution
 leading to speciation; its occurrence also affects human health
 (through the induction of trisomies) and the fertility of farm animals.
 To understand the mechanism of Rb translocation, we used the house
 mouse as a model system and studied the organization of pericentromeric
 satellite DNAs (satDNA) of telocentrics and Rb chromosomes, both minor
 and major satDNA. The chromosome-orientation fluorescence in
 situ hybridization (CO-FISH) technique was used to analyze the
 major satDNA. To detect the very small amount of minor satDNA, a
 procedure was developed that combines CO-FISH with primed in
 situ labeling and conventional FISH and is five times more
 sensitive than the CO-FISH procedure alone. It was found that both the
 major and the minor satDNA tandem repeats are oriented head-to-tail in
 telocentric and Rb chromosomes, and their polarity is always the same
 relative to the centromere. We suggest that all tandemly repetitive
 satDNAs in a species probably are locked into such a symmetry
 constraint as a universal consequence of chromosomal evolution. Rb
 translocation breakpoints were found localized within the minor satDNA
 of telocentrics, and these sequences contributed symmetrically to the
 formation of the centromeric region of the Rb chromosomes. These
 results are important for an understanding of the geometry of Rb
 translocations and suggest the study of DNA orientation as a new tool
 for investigating these rearrangements.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rapidly evolving entities, such as viruses, can undergo complex
 genetic changes in the face of strong selective pressure. We have
 developed a modified heteroduplex tracking assay (HTA) capable of
 detecting the presence of single, specific mutations or sets of linked
 mutations. The initial application of this approach, termed
 multiple-site-specific (MSS) HTA, was directed toward the detection of
 mutations in the HIV-1 pro gene at positions 46, 48, 54,
 82, 84, and 90, which are associated with resistance to multiple
 protease inhibitors. We demonstrate that MSS HTA is sensitive and
 largely specific to all targeted mutations. The assay allows the
 accurate and reproducible quantitation of viral subpopulations
 comprising 3% or more of the total population. Furthermore, we used
 MSS HTA in longitudinal studies of pro gene evolution
 in vitro and in vivo. In the examples
 shown here, populations turned over rapidly and more than one
 population was present frequently. To demonstrate the versatility of
 MSS HTA, we also constructed a probe sensitive to changes at positions
 181 and 184 of the RT coding domain. Changes at these positions are
 involved in resistance to nevirapine and 2′,3′-dideoxy-3′-thiacytidine
 (3TC), respectively. This assay easily detected the evolution of
 resistance to 3TC. MSS HTA provides a rapid and sensitive approach for
 detecting the presence of and quantifying complex mixtures of distinct
 genotypes, including genetically linked mutations, and, as one example,
 represents a useful tool for following the evolution of drug resistance
 during failure of HIV-1 antiviral therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The identification of clones within bacterial populations is often
 taken as evidence for a low rate of recombination, but the validity of
 this inference is rarely examined. We have used statistical tests of
 congruence between gene trees to examine the extent and significance of
 recombination in six bacterial pathogens. For Neisseria
 meningitidis, Streptococcus pneumoniae,
 Streptococcus pyogenes, and Staphylococcus
 aureus, the congruence between the maximum likelihood trees
 reconstructed using seven house-keeping genes was in most cases no
 better than that between each tree and trees of random topology. The
 lack of congruence between gene trees in these four species, which
 include both naturally transformable and nontransformable species, is
 in three cases supported by high ratios of recombination to point
 mutation during clonal diversification (estimates of this parameter
 were not possible for Strep. pyogenes). In contrast,
 gene trees constructed for Hemophilus influenzae and
 pathogenic isolates of Escherichia coli showed a higher
 degree of congruence, suggesting lower rates of recombination. The
 impact of recombination therefore varies between bacterial species but
 in many species is sufficient to obliterate the phylogenetic signal in
 gene trees.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA sequence evidence supports a superordinal clade of mammals that
 comprises elephants, sea cows, hyraxes, aardvarks, elephant shrews,
 golden moles, and tenrecs, which all have their origins in Africa, and
 therefore are dubbed Afrotheria. Morphologically, this appears an
 unlikely assemblage, which challenges—by including golden moles and
 tenrecs—the monophyly of the order Lipotyphla (Insectivora). We here
 identify in three proteins unique combinations of apomorphous amino
 acid replacements that support this clade. The statistical support for
 such “sequence signatures” as unambiguous synapomorphic evidence
 for the naturalness of the Afrotherian clade is reported. Using
 likelihood, combinatorial, and Bayesian methods we show that the
 posterior probability of the mammalian tree containing the Afrotherian
 clade is effectively 1.0, based on conservative assumptions. Presenting
 sequence data for another African insectivore, the otter shrew
 Micropotamogale lamottei, we demonstrate that such
 signatures are diagnostic for including newly investigated species in
 the Afrotheria. Sequence signatures provide
 “protein-morphological” synapomorphies that may aid in
 visualizing monophyletic groupings.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of genetic variation among modern individuals is
 providing insight into prehistoric events. Comparisons of levels and
 patterns of genetic diversity with the predictions of models based on
 archeological evidence suggest that the spread of early farmers from
 the Levant was probably the main episode in the European population
 history, but that both older and more recent processes have left
 recognizable traces in the current gene pool.
DOC DONE!Abstract
D-type cyclins (cyclins D1, D2, and D3) are key components of cell
 cycle machinery in mammalian cells. These proteins are believed to
 drive cell cycle progression by associating with their kinase partners,
 cyclin-dependent kinases, and by directing phosphorylation of critical
 cellular substrates. In addition, D-cyclins play a kinase-independent
 role by sequestering cell cycle inhibitors p27Kip1 and
 p21Cip1. In the past, we and others generated cyclin
 D1-deficient mice and have shown that these mice display developmental
 abnormalities, hypoplastic retinas, and pregnancy-insensitive mammary
 glands. To test the significance of cyclin D1–p27Kip1
 interaction within a living mouse, we crossed cyclin D1-deficient mice
 with mice lacking p27Kip1, and we generated double-mutant
 cyclin D1−/−p27−/− animals. Here we report
 that ablation of p27Kip1 restores
 essentially normal development in cyclin D1-deficient mice. Our results
 provide genetic evidence that p27Kip1 functions downstream
 of cyclin D1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Histone acetylation and deacetylation play essential roles in
 eukaryotic gene regulation. Reversible modifications of core histones
 are catalyzed by two intrinsic enzymes, histone acetyltransferase and
 histone deacetylase (HD). In general, histone deacetylation is related
 to transcriptional gene silencing, whereas acetylation correlates with
 gene activation. We produced transgenic plants expressing the antisense
 Arabidopsis HD (AtHD1) gene. AtHD1 is a homolog of human
 HD1 and RPD3 global transcriptional regulator in yeast. Expression of
 the antisense AtHD1 caused dramatic reduction in
 endogenous AtHD1 transcription, resulting in
 accumulation of acetylated histones, notably tetraacetylated H4.
 Reduction in AtHD1 expression and AtHD1 production and
 changes in acetylation profiles were associated with various
 developmental abnormalities, including early senescence, ectopic
 expression of silenced genes, suppression of apical dominance, homeotic
 changes, heterochronic shift toward juvenility, flower defects, and
 male and female sterility. Some of the phenotypes could be attributed
 to ectopic expression of tissue-specific genes (e.g.,
 SUPERMAN) in vegetative tissues. No changes in genomic
 DNA methylation were detected in the transgenic plants. These results
 suggest that AtHD1 is a global regulator, which controls gene
 expression during development through DNA-sequence independent or
 epigenetic mechanisms in plants. In addition to DNA methylation,
 histone modifications may be involved in a general regulatory mechanism
 responsible for plant plasticity and variation in nature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a strategy for multiplex PCR based on PCR
 suppression. PCR suppression allows DNA target amplification with only
 one sequence-specific primer per target and a second primer that is
 common for all targets. Therefore, an n-plex PCR would require only n +
 1 primers. We have demonstrated uniform, efficient amplification of
 targeted sequences in 14-plex PCR. The high specificity of suppression
 PCR also provides multiplexed amplification with allele specificity.
 Multiplexed PCR was used to develop assays for genotyping DNA samples
 from cystic fibrosis-affected individuals. The new approach greatly
 simplifies primer design, significantly increases the PCR multiplexing
 level, and decreases the overall primer cost. In addition, this assay
 is more readily amenable to automation and is therefore suitable for
 high-throughput genetic diagnostics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many circular genomes have replication termination systems, yet
 disruption of these systems does not cause an obvious defect in growth
 or viability. We have found that the replication termination system of
 Bacillus subtilis contributes to accurate chromosome
 partitioning. Partitioning of the terminus region requires that
 chromosome dimers, that have formed as a result of RecA-mediated
 homologous recombination, be resolved to monomers by the site-specific
 recombinase encoded by ripX. In addition, the chromosome
 must be cleared from the region of formation of the division septum.
 This process is facilitated by the spoIIIE gene product
 which is required for movement of a chromosome out of the way of the
 division septum during sporulation. We found that deletion of
 rtp, which encodes the replication termination protein,
 in combination with mutations in ripX or
 spoIIIE, led to an increase in production of anucleate
 cells. This increase in production of anucleate cells depended on
 recA, indicating that there is probably an increase in
 chromosome dimer formation in the absence of the replication
 termination system. Our results also indicate that SpoIIIE probably
 enhances the function of the RipX recombinase system. We also
 determined the subcellular location of the replication termination
 protein and found that it is a good marker for the position of the
 chromosome terminus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have constructed DNA microarrays containing 17,871 genes,
 representing about 94% of the 18,967 genes currently annotated in the
 Caenorhabditis elegans genome. These DNA
 microarrays can be used as a tool to define a nearly complete molecular
 profile of gene expression levels associated with different
 developmental stages, growth conditions, or worm strains. Here, we used
 these full-genome DNA microarrays to show the relative levels of gene
 expression for nearly every gene during development, from eggs through
 adulthood. These expression data can help reveal when a gene may act
 during development. We also compared gene expression in males to that
 of hermaphrodites and found a total of 2,171 sex-regulated genes
 (P < 0.05). The sex-regulated genes provide a
 global view of the differences between the sexes at a molecular level
 and identify many genes likely to be involved in sex-specific
 differentiation and behavior.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Retinoid X receptor α (RXRα) is involved in multiple signaling
 pathways, as a heterodimeric partner of several nuclear receptors. To
 investigate its function in energy homeostasis, we have selectively
 ablated the RXRα gene in adipocytes of 4-week-old transgenic mice by
 using the tamoxifen-inducible Cre-ERT2 recombination
 system. Mice lacking RXRα in adipocytes were resistant to dietary and
 chemically induced obesity and impaired in fasting-induced lipolysis.
 Our results also indicate that RXRα is involved in adipocyte
 differentiation. Thus, our data demonstrate the feasibility of
 adipocyte-selective temporally controlled gene engineering and reveal a
 central role of RXRα in adipogenesis, probably as a
 heterodimeric partner for peroxisome proliferator-activated
 receptor γ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cleavage model for signal transduction by receptors of the
 LIN-12/Notch family posits that ligand binding leads to cleavage
 within the transmembrane domain, so that the intracellular domain is
 released to translocate to the nucleus and activate target gene
 expression. The familial Alzheimer's disease-associated protein
 Presenilin is required for LIN-12/Notch signaling, and several lines
 of evidence suggest that Presenilin mediates the transmembrane cleavage
 event that releases the LIN-12/Notch intracellular domain. However,
 doubt was cast on this possibility by a report that Presenilin is not
 required for the transducing activity of NECN, a
 constitutively active transmembrane form of Notch, in
 Drosophila. Here, we have reassessed this finding and
 show instead that Presenilin is required for activity of
 NECN for all cell fate decisions examined. Our results
 indicate that transmembrane cleavage and signal transduction are
 strictly correlated, supporting the cleavage model for signal
 transduction by LIN-12/Notch and a role for Presenilin in mediating
 the ligand-induced transmembrane cleavage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic analysis of autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
 (IDDM) has focused on genes controlling immune functions, with little
 investigation of innate susceptibility determinants expressed at the
 level of target β cells. The Alloxan (AL) Resistant (R) Leiter (Lt)
 mouse strain, closely related to the IDDM-prone nonobese diabetic
 (NOD)/Lt strain, demonstrates the importance of such determinants.
 ALR mice are unusual in their high constitutive expression of molecules
 associated with dissipation of free-radical stress systemically and at
 the β-cell level. ALR islets were found to be remarkably
 resistant to two different combinations of β-cytotoxic cytokines
 (IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor α, and IFN-γ) that destroyed islets
 from the related NOD and alloxan-susceptible strains. The close MHC
 relatedness between the NOD and ALR strains (H2-Kd and
 H2-Ag7 identical) allowed us to examine whether ALR islet
 cells could survive autoimmune destruction by NOD-derived
 Kd-restricted diabetogenic cytotoxic T lymphocyte clones
 (AI4 and the insulin-reactive G9C8 clones). Both clones killed islet
 cells from all Kd-expressing strains except ALR. ALR
 resistance to diabetogenic immune systems was determined in
 vivo by means of adoptive transfer of the G9C8 clone or by
 chimerizing lethally irradiated ALR or reciprocal (ALR ×
 NOD)F1 recipients with NOD bone marrow. In all in
 vivo systems, ALR and F1 female recipients of NOD
 marrow remained IDDM free; in contrast, all of the NOD recipients
 became diabetic. In conclusion, the ALR mouse presents a unique
 opportunity to identify dominant IDDM resistance determinants expressed
 at the β cell level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mechanisms controlling induction of anergy at the level of
 naïve CD4+ T cells are poorly understood but
 thought to reflect limited contact with costimulatory molecules during
 T cell antigen receptor (TCR) ligation. To clarify this question,
 naïve TCR transgenic CD4+ cells were exposed to
 specific peptide presented by transfected antigen-presenting cells
 (APC) expressing MHC class II molecules with defined accessory
 molecules. Significantly, culturing CD4+ cells with APC
 expressing MHC II plus peptide alone elicited early TCR signaling but
 failed to induce either proliferation or anergy. Culture with APC
 expressing MHC II plus B7 molecules led to strong proliferation and T
 cell priming but no anergy. In marked contrast, conspicuous induction
 of anergy occurred after T cell culture with APC expressing MHC class
 II and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Thus, at the level
 of naïve CD4+ cells, anergy induction appears to
 reflect selective contact with APC expressing ICAM-1 in the absence of
 B7.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a ligand of the receptor tyrosine
 kinase encoded by the c-Met protooncogene.
 HGF/Met signaling has multifunctional effects on various cell
 types. We sought to determine the role of HGF/Met in
 apoptosis and identify signal transducers involved in this
 process. In experiments with human SK-LMS-1 leiomyosarcoma cells, we
 show that the Akt kinase is activated by HGF in a time- and
 dose-dependent manner by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase).
 Akt is also activated by active tumorigenic forms of Met, i.e.,
 ligand-independent Tpr-Met, a truncated and constitutively dimerized
 form of Met, and a mutationally activated version of Met corresponding
 to that found in human hereditary papillary renal carcinoma. In NIH 3T3
 cells transfected with wild-type Met, HGF inhibits apoptosis
 induced by serum starvation and UV irradiation. HGF-induced survival
 correlates with Akt activity and is inhibited by the specific
 PI3-kinase inhibitor LY294002, indicating that HGF inhibits cell death
 through the PI3-kinase/Akt signal transduction pathway.
 Furthermore, transiently transfected Tpr-Met activates Akt (both Akt1
 and Akt2) and protects cells from apoptosis. Mitogen-activated
 protein kinase (MAPK) also is activated by HGF and rescues cells from
 apoptosis, although the cytoprotective effect is less marked
 than for PI3-kinase/Akt. Blocking MAPK with the specific MAPK
 kinase inhibitor PD098059 impairs the ability of HGF to promote cell
 survival. Similar results were obtained with NIH 3T3 cells expressing
 the fusion protein Trk-Met and stimulated with nerve growth factor, the
 Trk ligand. These results demonstrate that HGF/Met is capable of
 protecting cells from apoptosis by using both
 PI3-kinase/Akt and, to a lesser extent, MAPK pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD8+ T cell-mediated antiviral activity against
 HIV has been described consistently in infected individuals; however,
 the role of this activity in controlling replication of HIV in the
 latently infected, resting CD4+ T cell reservoir is
 unclear. By using an ex vivo system, we show that
 replication of HIV in this viral reservoir is effectively suppressed in
 coculture by autologous CD8+ T cells in long-term
 nonprogressors (LTNPs) and in patients whose viremia was controlled by
 highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), but not in therapy-naive
 patients who had substantial levels of plasma viremia. This antiviral
 activity was largely independent of cytotoxic CD8+ T
 lymphocytes (CTL). When the role of soluble CD8+ T
 cell-derived factors was examined, we found that CC-chemokines played a
 major role in inhibition of viral replication in the latent viral
 reservoir in some LTNPs and patients receiving HAART, but not in
 chronically infected patients who were not receiving antiretroviral
 therapy. Potent antiviral activity, independent of CC-chemokines, was
 found mainly in patients in whom HAART was initiated shortly after the
 acute phase of HIV infection. These results indicate that
 CD8+ T cells provide potent suppressive activity against
 HIV replication in the latent viral reservoir via direct cellular
 contact in patients who are naturally LTNPs or in those who are treated
 with HAART. Furthermore, the profound antiviral activity exerted by
 non-CC-chemokine soluble factors in infected patients who began HAART
 early in HIV infection suggests that preservation of this
 HIV-suppressive mechanism by early initiation of therapy may play an
 important role in the containment of viral replication in infected
 patients following interruption of therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Approximately one-third of patients with porphyria cutanea tarda
 (PCT), the most common porphyria in humans, inherit a single mutant
 allele of the uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D)
 gene. PCT associated with URO-D mutations is designated
 familial PCT. The phenotype is characterized by a photosensitive
 dermatosis with hepatic accumulation and urinary excretion of
 uroporphyrin and hepta-carboxylic porphyrins. Most heterozygotes for
 URO-D mutations do not express a porphyric phenotype
 unless hepatic siderosis is present. Hemochromatosis gene
 (HFE) mutations are frequently found when the phenotype
 is expressed. We used homologous recombination to disrupt one allele of
 murine URO-D. URO-D+/− mice
 had half-wild type (wt) URO-D protein and enzymatic activity in all
 tissues but did not accumulate hepatic porphyrins, indicating that
 half-normal URO-D activity is not rate limiting. When
 URO-D+/− mice were injected with
 iron-dextran and given drinking water containing δ-aminolevulinic
 acid for 21 days, hepatic porphyrins accumulated, and hepatic URO-D
 activity was reduced to 20% of wt. We bred mice homozygous for an
 HFE gene disruption
 (HFE−/−) to
 URO-D+/− mice, generating mice with the
 URO-D+/−/HFE−/−
 genotype. These animals developed a porphyric phenotype by 14 weeks of
 age without ALA supplementation, and URO-D activity was reduced to 14%
 of wt. These data indicate that iron overload alone is sufficient to
 reduce URO-D activity to rate-limiting levels in
 URO-D+/− mice. The
 URO-D+/− mouse serves as an excellent model
 of familial PCT and affords the opportunity to define the mechanism by
 which iron influences URO-D activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adenomas are the precursors of most colorectal cancers.
 Hyperplastic polyps have been linked to the subset of colorectal
 cancers showing DNA microsatellite instability, but little is known of
 their underlying genetic etiology. Using a strategy that isolates
 differentially methylated sequences from hyperplastic polyps and normal
 mucosa, we identified a 370-bp sequence containing the 5′ untranslated
 region and the first exon of a gene that we have called
 HPP1. Rapid amplification of cDNA ends was used to
 isolate HPP1 from normal mucosa. Using reverse
 transcription–PCR, HPP1 was expressed in 28 of 30
 (93%) normal colonic samples but in only seven of 30 (23%) colorectal
 cancers (P < 0.001). The 5′ region of
 HPP1 included a CpG island containing 49 CpG sites, of
 which 96% were found to be methylated by bisulfite sequencing of DNA
 from colonic tumor samples. By COBRA analysis, methylation was detected
 in six of nine (66%) adenomas, 17 of 27 (63%) hyperplastic polyps,
 and 46 of 55 (84%) colorectal cancers. There was an inverse
 relationship between methylation level and mRNA expression in cancers
 (r = −0.67; P < 0.001), and
 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine treatment restored HPP1 expression
 in two colorectal cancer cell lines. In situ
 hybridization of HPP1 indicated that expression occurs
 in epithelial and stromal elements in normal mucosa but is silenced in
 both cell types in early colonic neoplasia. HPP1 is
 predicted to encode a transmembrane protein containing follistatin and
 epidermal growth factor-like domains. Silencing of HPP1
 by methylation may increase the probability of neoplastic
 transformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intraerythrocytic malaria parasites replicate by the process of
 schizogeny, during which time they copy their genetic material and
 package it into infective merozoites. These merozoites must then exit
 the host cell to invade new erythrocytes. To better characterize the
 events of merozoite escape, erythrocytes containing Plasmodium
 falciparum schizonts were cultured in the presence of the
 cysteine protease inhibitor,
 l-transepoxy-succinyl-leucylamido-(4-guanidino)butane
 (E64). This treatment resulted in the accumulation of extraerythrocytic
 merozoites locked within a thin, transparent membrane. Immunomicroscopy
 demonstrated that the single membrane surrounding the merozoites is not
 erythrocytic but rather is derived from the parasitophorous vacuolar
 membrane (PVM). Importantly, structures identical in appearance can be
 detected in untreated cultures at low frequency. Further studies
 revealed that (i) merozoites from the PVM-enclosed
 merozoite structures (PEMS) are invasive, viable, and capable of normal
 development; (ii) PEMS can be purified easily and
 efficiently; and (iii) when PEMS are added to uninfected
 red blood cells, released merozoites can establish a synchronous wave
 of infection. These observations suggest that
 l-transepoxy-succinyl-leucylamido-(4-guanidino)butane (E64)
 causes an accumulation of an intermediate normally present during the
 process of rupture. We propose a model for the process of rupture:
 merozoites enclosed within the PVM first exit from the host erythrocyte
 and then rapidly escape from the PVM by a proteolysis-dependent
 mechanism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-10 is a pleiotropic cytokine that acts as an important regulator
 of macrophage, T cell, and natural killer cell functions. Human IL-10
 (hIL-10) has both stimulatory and inhibitory effects on a wide variety
 of cell types. Viral IL-10 (vIL-10) possesses only a subset of
 hIL-10's activities, predominantly its suppression of cytokine
 synthesis by T helper type 1 clones. In the present report, we
 evaluated tissue accumulation and biological activity of hIL-10 and
 vIL-10 in vivo in individual organs by using a
 first-generation adenoviral (Ad) vector administered intratracheally
 and intravenously. We report the observation that Ad vectors delivering
 vIL-10, but not hIL-10, are associated with prolonged expression in the
 lung (>42 days) when delivered intratracheally. In contrast, there was
 no prolongation in vIL-10 expression when Ad vectors were intravenously
 administered, although vIL-10 levels in the tissue, but not serum, were
 markedly increased relative to hIL-10. Moreover, we report an augmented
 capacity of expressed vIL-10 versus hIL-10 to suppress the acute
 inflammatory responses in the lung to intratracheal administration of
 Ad. These findings confirm fundamental differences in Ad-induced
 expression of vIL-10 and hIL-10 when administered to the lungs. The
 results further suggest that Ad vectors expressing vIL-10 may have a
 role as anti-inflammatory agents in the treatment of acute and chronic
 lung inflammation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In Gram-negative bacteria, TEM-1 β-lactamase provides the major
 mechanism of plasmid-mediated β-lactam resistance. Natural variants
 of TEM-1 with increased antibiotic resistance have appeared in response
 to the use of extended-spectrum β-lactam antibiotics (e.g.,
 ceftazidime) and β-lactamase inhibitors (e.g., clavulanic acid). Some
 of the variant enzymes are more efficient at catalyzing β-lactam
 hydrolysis, whereas others are more resistant to inhibitors. M182T is a
 substitution observed in both types of variant TEM-1 β-lactamases.
 This mutation is found only in combination with other amino acid
 substitutions, suggesting that it may correct defects introduced by
 other mutations that alter the specificity. An engineered core
 mutation, L76N, which diminishes the periplasmic β-lactamase activity
 by 100-fold, was used as a model to understand the mechanism of
 suppression of the M182T mutation. Biochemical studies of the L76N
 enzyme alone and in combination with the M182T mutation indicate that
 the M182T substitution acts at the level of folding but does not affect
 the thermodynamic stability of TEM-1 β-lactamase. Thus, the M182T
 substitution is an example of a naturally occurring mutation that has
 evolved to alter the folding pathway of a protein and confer a
 selective advantage during the evolution of drug resistance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The hrp gene clusters of plant pathogenic bacteria
 control pathogenicity on their host plants and ability to elicit the
 hypersensitive reaction in resistant plants. Some hrp
 gene products constitute elements of the type III secretion system, by
 which effector proteins are exported and delivered into plant cells.
 Here, we show that the hrpZ gene product from the bean
 halo-blight pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv.
 phaseolicola (HrpZPsph), is secreted in an
 hrp-dependent manner in P. syringae pv.
 phaseolicola and exported by the type III secretion
 system in the mammalian pathogen Yersinia
 enterocolitica. HrpZPsph was found to associate
 stably with liposomes and synthetic bilayer membranes. Under symmetric
 ionic conditions, addition of 2 nM of purified recombinant
 HrpZPsph to the cis compartment of planar lipid bilayers
 provoked an ion current with a large unitary conductivity of 207 pS.
 HrpZPsph-related proteins from P. syringae
 pv. tomato or syringae triggered ion
 currents similar to those stimulated by HrpZPsph. The
 HrpZPsph-mediated ion-conducting pore was permeable for
 cations but did not mediate fluxes of Cl−. Such
 pore-forming activity may allow nutrient release and/or delivery of
 virulence factors during bacterial colonization of host plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The prefrontal cortex plays a fundamental role in the working
 memory functions of the cerebral cortex and is also the site of
 dysfunction in several neurological and psychiatric disorders,
 including schizophrenia. Prefrontal neurons are distinguished by their
 capacity for sustained activity during the time a stimulus is held in
 memory, and this mnemonic response is considered a substrate for a
 variety of cognitive functions. The neuronal basis for sustained
 activity in prefrontal neurons is unknown but is thought to involve
 recurrent excitation among pyramidal neurons. Recent studies in awake
 behaving monkeys have demonstrated that the persistent activity in
 prefrontal neurons is modulated by dopamine. To examine the mechanisms
 by which dopamine might modulate transmission in local excitatory
 circuits, we have performed dual whole-cell recordings in connected
 pyramidal cell pairs with and without dopamine application. We find
 that dopamine reduces the efficacy of unitary excitatory
 neurotransmission in layer V pyramidal cells by decreasing its
 reliability. These effects, which are reproduced by a selective D1
 agonist and blocked by a D1 antagonist, are independent of voltage
 changes and are not attenuated by blockade of sodium and potassium
 channels in the postsynaptic neurons. We conclude that attenuation of
 local horizontal excitatory synaptic transmission in layer V pyramidal
 neurons by dopamine is through D1 actions at a presynaptic site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dopamine acts mainly through the D1/D5 receptor in the prefrontal
 cortex (PFC) to modulate neural activity and behaviors associated with
 working memory. To understand the mechanism of this effect, we examined
 the modulation of excitatory synaptic inputs onto layer V PFC pyramidal
 neurons by D1/D5 receptor stimulation. D1/D5 agonists increased the
 size of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)
 component of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) through a
 postsynaptic mechanism. In contrast, D1/D5 agonists caused a slight
 reduction in the size of the non-NMDA component of EPSCs through a
 small decrease in release probability. With 20 Hz synaptic trains, we
 found that the D1/D5 agonists increased depolarization of summating
 the NMDA component of excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP). By
 increasing the NMDA component of EPSCs, yet slightly reducing release,
 D1/D5 receptor activation selectively enhanced sustained synaptic
 inputs and equalized the sizes of EPSPs in a 20-Hz train.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mice engineered to lack GM2/GD2 synthase (GalNAc-T), with
 resultant deficit of GM2, GD2, and all gangliotetraose gangliosides,
 were originally described as showing a relatively normal phenotype with
 only a slight reduction in nerve conduction. However, a subsequent
 study showed that similar animals suffer axonal degeneration,
 myelination defects, and impaired motor coordination. We have examined
 the behavior of cerebellar granule neurons from these neonatal
 knockouts in culture and have found evidence of impaired capacity for
 Ca2+ regulation. These cells showed relatively normal
 behavior when grown in the presence of physiological or moderately
 elevated K+ but gradually degenerated in the presence of
 high K+. This degeneration in depolarizing medium was
 accompanied by progressive elevation of intracellular calcium and onset
 of apoptosis, phenomena not observed with normal cells. No
 differences were detected in cells from normal vs. heterozygous mice.
 These findings suggest that neurons from GalNAc-T knockout mice are
 lacking a calcium regulatory mechanism that is modulated by one or more
 of the deleted gangliosides, and they support the hypothesis that
 maintenance of calcium homeostasis is one function of complex
 gangliosides during, and perhaps subsequent to, neuronal development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We used event-related functional MRI to examine the neural
 consequences of detecting the presence or absence of a stimulus.
 Subjects detected a brief interval of coherent motion embedded in
 dynamic noise that was presented throughout a test period. Several
 brain regions, including V1/V2, middle temporal complex (MT+), left
 intraparietal cortex, and the frontal eye field, were activated at the
 onset of the dynamic noise, irrespective of whether a coherent motion
 target was presented early or late in the test period, or not at all.
 These regions, many of which were motion sensitive, were likely
 involved in searching for and detecting the target. The blood
 oxygenation level-dependent signal in these regions was higher in
 trials in which a target was detected than in trials in which it was
 missed or not presented, indicating that these regions were modulated
 by detection. Moreover, the blood oxygenation leveldependent signal in
 these regions decayed quickly once a target was detected, even though
 the dynamic noise continued to be displayed, indicating that they were
 shut down after detection. Therefore, detection-related modulations
 occurred in the same regions that accumulate target information over
 time, in agreement with current psychological and neural models of
 detection. Many other regions, however, including areas in prefrontal
 cortex and anterior cingulate, were not involved in searching for a
 target. In these regions, activation began early in the test period
 when an early target was detected but began late in the test period
 when a late target was detected or when a response was correctly
 withheld in the absence of a motion target. The signal in these regions
 was therefore triggered by a discrete event during the test interval
 that was related to presence–absence detection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the mammalian main olfactory bulb (MOB), the release of
 glutamate from lateral dendrites of mitral cells onto the dendrites of
 granule cells evokes recurrent and lateral inhibition of mitral cell
 activity. Whole-cell voltage recordings in the mouse MOB in
 vivo and in vitro show that recurrent and
 lateral inhibition together control the number, duration, and onset of
 odor-evoked action potential (AP) firing in mitral cells. APs in mitral
 cells propagate into the lateral dendrites and evoke a transient
 increase in dendritic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]),
 which is decremental with distance from the soma, and increases with AP
 number. These results suggest that the extent of AP propagation in
 lateral dendrites of mitral cells, along with the concomitant dendritic
 Ca2+ transient, controls the amplitude of lateral and
 recurrent inhibition and thus is a critical determinant of
 odor-specific AP patterns in the MOB.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have established that humans and monkeys with
 damage to striate cortex are able to detect and localize bright targets
 within the resultant scotoma. Electrophysiological evidence in monkeys
 suggests that residual vision also might include sensitivity to
 direction of visual motion. We tested whether macaque monkeys with
 longstanding lesions of striate cortex (V1), sustained in infancy,
 could discriminate visual stimuli on the basis of direction of motion.
 Three monkeys with unilateral striate cortex lesions sustained in
 infancy were tested 2–5 years postlesion on a direction of motion
 discrimination task. Each monkey was trained to make saccadic eye
 movements to a field of moving dots or to withhold such eye movements,
 depending on the direction of motion in a coherent random dot display.
 With smaller motion displays, monkeys were unable to detect or
 discriminate motion within the scotoma, although they could
 discriminate moving from static stimuli. Yet, each monkey was able to
 discriminate direction of motion when the motion stimulus was larger,
 but still confined to the scotoma. The results demonstrate that the
 recovery after infant damage to striate cortex includes some
 sensitivity to direction of visual motion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have studied the effects of cAMP on synaptic transmission at the
 calyx of Held and found that forskolin (an activator of adenylate
 cyclase) and 8-Br-cAMP (a membrane-permeable analog of cAMP)
 potentiated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). Direct sampling
 of miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) and nonstationary fluctuation analysis
 showed that mEPSCs were not modulated by cAMP, suggesting that the
 locus of modulation is presynaptic. Deconvolution was used to examine
 effects of cAMP on quantal-release rates. By using this method, it was
 shown recently that release probabilities of readily releasable
 vesicles are heterogeneous. Here, we show that cAMP selectively
 increases the number of vesicles with higher release probabilities,
 whereas a slow component of the EPSC, representing vesicles that fuse
 more slowly, is unchanged. cAMP increases the apparent Ca2+
 sensitivity for secretion, but this increase does not reflect an
 increase in release probability necessarily but rather an increase in
 the number of highly sensitive vesicles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the olfactory bulb, synaptic transmission between dendrites
 plays an important role in the processing of olfactory information.
 Glutamate released from the dendrites of principal mitral cells excites
 the dendritic spines of granule cells, which in turn release
 γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) back onto mitral cell dendrites. Slow
 N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on
 granule dendrites are particularly effective in driving this reciprocal
 dendrodendritic inhibition (DDI), raising the possibility that calcium
 influx through NMDA receptors may trigger GABA exocytosis directly. In
 this study, I show that NMDA receptor activation is not an absolute
 requirement and that DDI can be evoked solely by
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors
 when granule cell excitability is increased or under conditions that
 slow AMPA receptor kinetics. In physiological extracellular
 Mg2+, DDI elicited by photolysis of caged calcium in mitral
 dendrites is blocked by cadmium and toxins to N- and P/Q-type
 voltage-gated calcium channels. DDI is largely unaffected after granule
 dendrites have been loaded with the slow calcium chelator EGTA,
 suggesting a tight coupling between the site of calcium influx and the
 release machinery governing GABA exocytosis. These results indicate
 that voltage-gated calcium channels play an essential role in dendritic
 GABA release during reciprocal feedback inhibition in the olfactory
 bulb.
DOC DONE!Abstract
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have recently joined the list
 of cell surface receptors that dimerize. Dimerization has been shown to
 alter the ligand-binding, signaling, and trafficking properties of
 these receptors. Recent studies have shown that GPCRs heterodimerize
 with closely related members, resulting in the modulation of their
 function. In this study, we have attempted to determine whether members
 of GPCR superfamilies that couple to different families of G-proteins
 can associate and form oligomers. We chose the β2
 adrenergic receptor that couples to stimulatory G-proteins and δ &
 κ opioid receptors that couple to inhibitory G-proteins.
 β2 and δ receptors undergo robust agonist-mediated
 endocytosis, whereas κ receptors do not. We find that when
 coexpressed, β2 receptors can form heteromeric complexes
 with both δ and κ receptors. This heterooligomerization does
 not significantly alter the ligand binding or coupling properties of
 the receptors. However, it affects the trafficking properties of
 the receptors. For example, we find that δ receptors, when
 coexpressed with β2 receptors, undergo
 isoproterenol-mediated endocytosis. Conversely, β2
 receptors in these cells undergo etorphine-mediated endocytosis.
 However, β2 receptors, when coexpressed with κ
 receptors, undergo neither opioid- nor isoproterenol-mediated
 endocytosis. Moreover, these cells exhibit a substantial decrease in
 the isoproterenol-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein
 kinases. Taken together, these results provide direct evidence of
 heteromerization of GPCRs that couple to different types of G-proteins,
 which results in the modulation of receptor trafficking and signal
 transduction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Only three of the four thyroid hormone receptor (TR)
 isoforms, α1, β1, and β2, bind thyroid hormone (TH) and are
 considered to be true TRs. TRα2 binds to TH response elements on DNA,
 but its role in vivo is still unknown. We produced mice
 completely deficient in TRα (TRαo/o) that maintain
 normal serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentration despite
 low serum thyroxine (T4), suggesting increased sensitivity
 to TH. We therefore examined the effects of TH
 (L-3,3′,5-triiodothyronine, L-T3) given to TH-deprived and
 to intact TRαo/o mice. Controls were wild-type (WT) mice
 of the same strain and mice resistant to TH due to deficiency in TRβ
 (TRβ−/−). In liver, T3 produced
 significantly greater responses in TRαo/o and smaller
 responses in TRβ−/− as compared with WT mice. In
 contrast, cardiac responses to L-T3 were absent or reduced
 in TRαo/o, whereas they were similar in WT and
 TRβ−/− mice, supporting the notion that TRα1 is the
 dominant TH-dependent TR isoform in heart. 5-Triiodothyronine
 (L-T3) given to intact mice produced a greater suppression
 of serum T4 in TRαo/o than it did in WT mice
 and reduced by a greater amount the TSH response to TSH-releasing
 hormone. This is an in vivo demonstration that a TR
 deficiency can enhance sensitivity to TH. This effect is likely due to
 the abrogation of the constitutive “silencing” effect of TRα2
 in tissues expressing the TRβ isoforms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endothelial nitric oxide (nitrogen monoxide) is synthesized at the
 intravascular/extravascular interface. We previously have reported
 the intravascular half-life of NO, as a result of consumption by
 erythrocytes, as approximately 2 ms. We report here studies designed to
 estimate the lifetime of NO in the parenchymal (extravascular) tissue
 and describe the implications of these results for the distribution of
 NO and oxygen concentration gradients away from the blood vessel. The
 rate of consumption of NO by parenchymal cells (hepatocytes) linearly
 depends on both NO and O2 concentration. We estimate that
 the extravascular half-life of NO will range from 0.09 to >
 2 s, depending on O2 concentration and thus distance
 from the vessel. Computer modeling reveals that this phenomenon,
 coupled with reversible NO inhibition of cellular mitochondrial oxygen
 consumption, substantially extends the zone of adequate tissue cellular
 oxygenation away from the blood vessel, with an especially dramatic
 effect during conditions of increased tissue work (oxygen consumption).
 This represents a second action of NO, in addition to vasodilation, in
 enhancing tissue cellular respiration and provides a possible
 physiological function for the known reversible inhibition of
 mitochondrial respiration by low concentrations of NO.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It has been proposed recently that two types of GnRH receptors
 (GnRHR) exist in a particular species. Here we present data
 demonstrating that at least three types of GnRHR are expressed in a
 single diploid species, the bullfrog. Three different cDNAs, encoding
 distinct types of bullfrog GnRHR (bfGnRHR-1, bfGnRHR-2, and bfGnRHR-3),
 were isolated from pituitary and hindbrain of the bullfrog. BfGnRHR-1
 mRNA was expressed predominantly in pituitary, whereas bfGnRHR-2 and -3
 mRNAs were expressed in brain. The bfGnRHR-1, bfGnRHR-2, and bfGnRHR-3
 proteins have an amino acid identity of ≈30% to ≈35% with
 mammalian GnRHRs and ≈40% to ≈50% with nonmammalian GnRHRs.
 Interestingly, bfGnRHR-2 has an 85% amino acid homology with
 Xenopus GnRHR. Less than 53% amino acid identity
 was observed among the three bfGnRHRs. All isolated cDNAs encode
 functional receptors because their transient expression in COS-7 cells
 resulted in a ligand-dependent increase in inositol phosphate
 production. Notably, all three receptors exhibited a differential
 ligand selectivity. For all receptors, cGnRH-II has a higher potency
 than mGnRH. In addition, salmon GnRH also has a strikingly high potency
 to stimulate all three receptors. In conclusion, we demonstrated the
 presence of three GnRHRs in the bullfrog. Their expression in pituitary
 and brain suggests that bfGnRHRs play an important role in the
 regulation of reproductive functions in the bullfrog.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plant alkaloids, one of the largest groups of natural
 products, provide many pharmacologically active compounds. Several
 genes in the biosynthetic pathways for scopolamine, nicotine, and
 berberine have been cloned, making the metabolic engineering of these
 alkaloids possible. Expression of two branching-point enzymes was
 engineered: putrescine N-methyltransferase (PMT) in
 transgenic plants of Atropa belladonna and
 Nicotiana sylvestris and (S)-scoulerine
 9-O-methyltransferase (SMT) in cultured cells of
 Coptis japonica and Eschscholzia
 californica. Overexpression of PMT increased the nicotine
 content in N. sylvestris, whereas suppression of
 endogenous PMT activity severely decreased the nicotine
 content and induced abnormal morphologies. Ectopic expression of SMT
 caused the accumulation of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids in E.
 californica. The prospects and limitations of engineering plant
 alkaloid metabolism are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The enhanced disease resistance 1
 (edr1) mutation of Arabidopsis confers
 resistance to powdery mildew disease caused by the fungus
 Erysiphe cichoracearum. Resistance mediated by the
 edr1 mutation is correlated with induction of several
 defense responses, including host cell death. Double mutant analysis
 revealed that all edr1-associated phenotypes are
 suppressed by mutations that block salicylic acid (SA) perception
 (nim1) or reduce SA production (pad4 and
 eds1). The NahG transgene, which lowers
 endogenous SA levels, also suppressed edr1.
 In contrast, the ein2 mutation did not suppress
 edr1-mediated resistance and associated phenotypes,
 indicating that ethylene and jasmonic acid-induced responses are not
 required for edr1 resistance. The EDR1
 gene was isolated by positional cloning and was found to encode a
 putative MAP kinase kinase kinase similar to CTR1, a negative regulator
 of ethylene responses in Arabidopsis. Taken together,
 these data suggest that EDR1 functions at the top of a MAP kinase
 cascade that negatively regulates SA-inducible defense responses.
 Putative orthologs of EDR1 are present in monocots such as rice and
 barley, indicating that EDR1 may regulate defense responses in a wide
 range of crop species.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structure of scientific collaboration networks is investigated.
 Two scientists are considered connected if they have authored a paper
 together and explicit networks of such connections are constructed by
 using data drawn from a number of databases, including MEDLINE
 (biomedical research), the Los Alamos e-Print Archive (physics), and
 NCSTRL (computer science). I show that these collaboration networks
 form “small worlds,” in which randomly chosen pairs of scientists
 are typically separated by only a short path of intermediate
 acquaintances. I further give results for mean and distribution of
 numbers of collaborators of authors, demonstrate the presence of
 clustering in the networks, and highlight a number of apparent
 differences in the patterns of collaboration between the fields
 studied.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We propose a scheme for molecule-based information processing by
 combining well-studied spectroscopic techniques and recent results from
 chemical dynamics. Specifically it is discussed how optical transitions
 in single molecules can be used to rapidly perform classical (Boolean)
 logical operations. In the proposed way, a restricted number of states
 in a single molecule can act as a logical gate equivalent to at least
 two switches. It is argued that the four-level scheme can also be used
 to produce gain, because it allows an inversion, and not only a
 switching ability. The proposed scheme is quantum mechanical in that it
 takes advantage of the discrete nature of the energy levels but, we
 here discuss the temporal evolution, with the use of the populations
 only. On a longer time range we suggest that the same scheme could be
 extended to perform quantum logic, and a tentative suggestion, based on
 an available experiment, is discussed. We believe that the pumping can
 provide a partial proof of principle, although this and similar
 experiments were not interpreted thus far in our terms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae silencing protein Sir2
 is the founding member of a universally conserved family of proteins
 that have been shown to possess NAD-dependent histone deacetylation and
 ADP-ribosylation activities. Here we show that histone deacetylation by
 Sir2 is coupled to cleavage of the high-energy bond that links the
 ADP-ribose moiety of NAD to nicotinamide. Analysis of the NAD cleavage
 products revealed the presence of nicotinamide, ADP-ribose, and a third
 product that appeared to be related to ADP-ribose. With the use of
 label transfer experiments, we show that the acetyl group in the
 histone substrate is transferred to this NAD breakdown product during
 deacetylation, forming a product that we conclude to be
 O-acetyl-ADP-ribose. Detection of this species strongly
 argues for obligate coupling of histone deacetylation to NAD breakdown
 by Sir2. We propose reaction mechanisms that could account for this
 coupling via acetyl-ADP-ribose formation. The unprecedented coupling of
 amide bond cleavage to cleavage of a high-energy bond raises the
 possibility that NAD breakdown by Sir2 plays an important role in
 silencing that is independent of its requirement for deacetylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations in the clk-1 gene of the nematode
 Caenorhabditis elegans result in slowed
 development, sluggish adult behaviors, and an increased lifespan. CLK-1
 is a mitochondrial polypeptide with sequence and functional
 conservation from human to yeast. Coq7p, the Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae homologue, is essential for ubiquinone (coenzyme Q
 or Q) synthesis and therefore respiration. However, based on assays of
 respiratory function, it has been reported that the primary defect in
 the C. elegans clk-1 mutants is not in Q biosynthesis.
 How do the clk-1 mutant worms have essentially normal
 rates of respiration, when biochemical studies in yeast suggest a Q
 deficiency? Nematodes are routinely fed Escherichia coli
 strains containing a rich supply of Q. To study the Q synthesized by
 C. elegans, we cultured worms on an E.
 coli mutant that lacks Q and found that clk-1
 mutants display early developmental arrest from eggs, or sterility
 emerging from dauer stage. Provision of Q-replete E.
 coli rescues these defects. Lipid analysis showed that
 clk-1 worms lack the nematode Q9 isoform and
 instead contain a large amount of a metabolite that is slightly more
 polar than Q9. The clk-1 mutants also have
 increased levels of Q8, the E. coli isoform,
 and rhodoquinone-9. These results show that the clk-1
 mutations result in Q auxotrophy evident only when Q is removed from
 the diet, and that the aging and developmental phenotypes previously
 described are consistent with altered Q levels and distribution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We applied two experiments useful in the study of
 ligand-regulated DNA binding proteins to AraC, the dimeric regulator of
 the Escherichia coli l-arabinose operon. In
 the absence of arabinose, AraC prefers to loop DNA by binding to two
 half-sites that are separated by 210 base pairs, and in the presence of
 arabinose it prefers to bind to adjacently located half-sites. The
 basis for this ligand-regulated shift in binding appears to result from
 a shift in the rigidity of the system, where rigidity both in AraC
 protein in the absence of arabinose, and in the DNA are required to
 generate the free energy differences that produce the binding
 preferences. Eliminating the dimerization domains and connecting the
 two DNA binding domains of AraC by a flexible peptide linker should
 provide a protein whose behavior mimics that of AraC when there is no
 interaction between its dimerization and DNA binding domains. The
 resulting protein bound to adjacent half-sites on the DNA, like AraC
 protein in the presence of arabinose. When the two double-stranded DNA
 half-sites were connected by 24 bases of single-stranded, flexible DNA,
 wild-type AraC protein bound to the DNA in the presence and absence of
 arabinose with equal affinity, showing that AraC modulates its DNA
 binding affinity in response to arabinose by shifting the relative
 positions of its DNA binding domains. These results are consistent with
 the light switch mechanism for the action of AraC, refine the model,
 and extend the range of experimental tests to which it has been
 subjected.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The catalytic mechanism of the reductive half reaction of the
 quinoprotein methanol dehydrogenase (MDH) is believed to proceed either
 through a hemiketal intermediate or by direct transfer of a hydride ion
 from the substrate methyl group to the cofactor, pyrroloquinoline
 quinone (PQQ). A crystal structure of the enzyme-substrate complex of a
 similar quinoprotein, glucose dehydrogenase, has recently been reported
 that strongly favors the hydride transfer mechanism in that enzyme. A
 theoretical analysis and an improved refinement of the 1.9-Å
 resolution crystal structure of MDH from Methylophilus
 methylotrophus W3A1 in the presence of methanol, reported
 earlier, indicates that the observed tetrahedral configuration of the
 C-5 atom of PQQ in that study represents the C-5-reduced form of the
 cofactor and lends support for a hydride transfer mechanism for MDH.
DOC DONE!Abstract
MalT, the specific activator of the maltose regulon, is the
 prototype of a family of high-molecular-mass ATP-binding bacterial
 transcription activators. On binding of its two positive effectors, the
 inducer maltotriose and ATP, MalT oligomerizes to an active state
 competent for promoter binding and transcription activation. In
 addition to its previously known DNA-binding domain, limited
 proteolysis showed that MalT contains three other domains, the
 boundaries of which were accurately delimited by N-terminal
 microsequencing. The N-terminal domain alone binds ATP. Maltotriose
 binding involves an extended region corresponding to domains 2 and 3,
 although weak binding to domain 3 alone was also observed. Moreover,
 maltotriose binding induces a conformational shift involving a movement
 of both domains 1 and 3 with respect to domain 2, leading to the active
 form of the protein. Sequence examination of the MalT homologues
 suggests that these three domains might constitute a signaling module.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human nuclear RNase P purified from HeLa cells has ATPase activity.
 This activity is associated with one of the protein subunits of the
 enzyme, Rpp20. Thus, human nuclear RNase P, which contains several
 proteins and one essential RNA, has at least one other enzymatic
 activity in addition to cleavage of phosphoester bonds in RNA. The
 amino acid sequence of Rpp20 has a signature motif found in an
 ATPase-containing subunit of a family of protein complexes (ABC
 transporters) that mediate a variety of trans-membrane traffic, as well
 as a segment, DIxxN, that resembles the DEAD box motif of many ATPases:
 together, these might represent an ATPase signature motif.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA
 polymerase II plays an important role in transcription and processing
 of the nascent transcript by interacting with both transcription and
 RNA processing factors. We show here that the
 cleavage/polyadenylation factor IA of Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae directly contacts CTD. First by affinity
 chromatography experiments with yeast extracts we demonstrate that the
 Rna15p, Rna14p, and Pcf11p subunits of this complex are associated with
 phosphorylated CTD. This interaction is confirmed for Rna15p by yeast
 two-hybrid analysis. Second, Pcf11p, but not Rna15p, is shown to
 directly contact phosphorylated CTD based on in vitro
 binding studies with recombinant proteins. These findings establish a
 direct interaction of cleavage/polyadenylation factor IA with the
 CTD. Furthermore, a quantitative analysis of transcription run-on
 performed on temperature-sensitive mutant strains reveals that the lack
 of either functional Rna14p or Pcf11p affects transcription termination
 more severely than the absence of a functional Rna15p. Moreover, these
 data reinforce the concept that CTD phosphorylation acts as a
 regulatory mechanism in the maturation of the primary transcript.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amino acid–Fe(II)–chelator complexes exhibit strong
 antioxidant activity. Taking advantage of the unique spectral
 characteristics of the complexes formed when Ferrozine (Fz) is used as
 the chelator, we now show that the primary blue complex
 (ɛmax at 632 nm) decomposes by two independent pathways:
 (i) a nonoxidative pathway involving dissociation of the
 amino acid component and formation of a purple complex
 (ɛmax at 562 nm) and (ii) an oxidative
 pathway leading to Fe(III) and colorless products. Quantitative
 conversion of the blue to purple complex yields an isosbestic point
 (i.p.) at 601 nm, whereas no i.p. is formed during quantitative
 oxidation of the blue complex. However, under some experimental
 conditions, decomposition of the blue product occurs by both pathways,
 leading to occurrence of a clean i.p. at wavelengths varying from 601
 to 574 nm. Results of simulation experiments, confirmed by direct
 analysis, demonstrate that shifts in the i.p. reflect differences in
 the fractions of blue compound that decompose by the oxidative and
 nonoxidative pathways. Indeed, the fraction of blue that is converted
 to the purple complex is readily deduced from the wavelength of the
 i.p. These results suggest that identification of a physiological
 chelator that can replace Ferrozine in amino acid–iron complexes might
 have important physiological and pharmacological applications.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stimulated by recent 13C and 31P NMR
 studies of exercising muscle, we propose a model of the energetics of
 contraction. Previous studies of energetics have followed energy
 consumption. However, the rapidity of contraction, in 10–40 msec,
 requires that energy be delivered rapidly, so that the muscle has power
 requirements of rapid energy expenditure that are ultimately met by the
 slower averaged consumption of carbon and oxygen from blood. We propose
 that energy is supplied in milliseconds by glycogenolysis and that
 between contractions, glycogenesis refills the pools. The energy for
 glycogenesis is supplied by oxidative phosphorylation. This mechanism
 utilizes the rapid conversion of glycogen phosphorylase, the
 “fight-or-flight” enzyme, to its active form. Lactate is
 necessarily generated by this pathway to serve as a time buffer between
 fast and slow energy needs, which resolves the paradoxical generation
 of lactate in well oxygenated tissue. Consequences of the glycogen
 shunt are compatible with numerous biochemical and physiological
 experiments. The model provides a possible mechanism for muscle
 fatigue, suggesting that at low but nonzero glycogen concentrations,
 there is not enough glycogen to supply millisecond energy needs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The crystal structure of DsRed, a red fluorescent protein
 from a corallimorpharian, has been determined at 2.0-Å
 resolution by multiple-wavelength anomalous dispersion and
 crystallographic refinement. Crystals of the
 selenomethionine-substituted protein have space group P21
 and contain a tetramer with 222 noncrystallographic symmetry in the
 asymmetric unit. The refined model has satisfactory stereochemistry and
 a final crystallographic R factor of 0.162. The protein,
 which forms an obligatory tetramer in solution and in the crystal, is a
 squat rectangular prism comprising four protomers whose fold is
 extremely similar to that of the Aequorea victoria green
 fluorescent protein despite low (≈23%) amino acid sequence homology.
 The monomer consists of an 11-stranded β barrel with a coaxial helix.
 The chromophores, formed from the primary sequence -Gln-Tyr-Gly-
 (residues 66–68), are arranged in a ≈27 × 34-Å rectangular
 array in two approximately antiparallel pairs. The geometry at the α
 carbon of Gln-66 (refined without stereochemical restraints) is
 consistent with an sp2 hybridized center, in accord with
 the proposal that red fluorescence is because of an additional
 oxidation step that forms an acylimine extension to the chromophore
 [Gross, L. A., Baird, G. S., Hoffman, R. C., Baldridge,
 K. K. & Tsien, R. Y. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
 USA 87, 11990–11995]. The carbonyl oxygen of Phe-65 is almost
 90° out of the plane of the chromophore, consistent with theoretical
 calculations suggesting that this is the minimum energy conformation of
 this moiety despite the conjugation of this group with the rest of the
 chromophore.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Here we demonstrate the implementation of a single-molecule force
 clamp adapted for use with an atomic force microscope. We show that
 under force-clamp conditions, an engineered titin protein elongates in
 steps because of the unfolding of its modules and that the waiting
 times to unfold are exponentially distributed. Force-clamp measurements
 directly measure the force dependence of the unfolding probability and
 readily captures the different mechanical stability of the I27 and I28
 modules of human cardiac titin. Force-clamp spectroscopy promises to be
 a direct way to probe the mechanical stability of elastic proteins such
 as those found in muscle, the extracellular matrix, and cell adhesion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It has generally been considered that important biological effects
 of ionizing radiation arise as a direct consequence of DNA damage
 occurring in irradiated cells. We have examined this hypothesis by
 exposing cells to very low fluences of α-particles, similar to those
 emitted by radon gas, such that as few as 1% of the cells in a
 population are traversed by a particle and thus receive any radiation
 exposure. By using the endpoints of changes in gene expression and
 induction of DNA damage, we show that nonirradiated “bystander”
 cells participate in the overall response of confluent
 density-inhibited populations of cultured fibroblast and epithelial
 cells. By in situ immunofluorescence techniques and the
 use of cells genetically compromised in their ability to perform gap
 junction intercellular communication, we present direct evidence for
 the involvement of connexin43-mediated intercellular communication in
 the transmission of damage signals to nonirradiated cells. Induction of
 the stress-inducible p21Waf1 protein in aggregates of
 neighboring cells far exceeding the fraction of cells whose nucleus has
 been traversed occurred in gap junction-competent cells only. These
 changes in p21Waf1 expression correlated with both the
 induction of DNA damage (as measured by micronucleus formation) as well
 as increased Ser-15 phosphorylation of p53.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding of the chemical nature of the dioxygen moiety
 of oxyhemoglobin is crucial for elucidation of its physiological
 function. In the present work, direct Raman spectroscopic observation
 of both the Fe—O2 and O—O stretching modes
 unambiguously establishes the vibrational characteristics of the
 oxygen-bound heme moiety in the hemoglobins of Chlamydomonas
 eugametos and Synechocystis PCC6803. In addition
 to providing the resonance Raman assignment of the O—O stretching
 mode (1136 cm−1 for Chlamydomonas, 1133
 cm−1 for Synechocystis) in an oxyhemoglobin
 with an iron-porphyrin, this study also reports unusually low
 frequencies for the Fe—O2 stretching modes (554
 cm−1). The effect of strong hydrogen bonding to the bound
 oxygen is confirmed by changes in the frequency of the
 Fe—O2 stretching mode on mutation of distal residues.
 These findings suggest an enzymatic function rather than an oxygen
 transport role for these hemoglobins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transferred DNA (T-DNA) transfer from Agrobacterium
 tumefaciens into eukaryotic cells is the only known example of
 interkingdom DNA transfer. T-DNA is a single-stranded segment of
 Agrobacterium's tumor-inducing plasmid that enters the
 plant cell as a complex with the bacterial virulence proteins VirD2 and
 VirE2. The VirE2 protein is highly induced on contact of A.
 tumefaciens with a plant host and has been reported to act in
 late steps of transfer. One of its previously demonstrated functions is
 binding to the single-stranded (ss) T-DNA and protecting it from
 degradation. Recent experiments suggest other functions of the protein.
 A combination of planar lipid bilayer experiments, vesicle swelling
 assays, and DNA transport experiments demonstrated that VirE2 can
 insert itself into artificial membranes and form channels. These
 channels are voltage gated, anion selective, and single-stranded
 DNA-specific and can facilitate the efficient transport of
 single-stranded DNA through membranes. These experiments demonstrate a
 VirE2 function as a transmembrane DNA transporter, which could have
 applications in gene delivery systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ankyrin is a cytoskeletal adaptor protein that controls important
 cellular functions, including Ca2+ efflux at inositol
 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R) on the endoplasmic
 reticulum. The present study found that sigma-1 receptors (Sig-1R),
 unique endoplasmic reticulum proteins that bind certain steroids,
 neuroleptics, and psychotropic drugs, form a trimeric complex with
 ankyrin B and IP3R type 3 (IP3R-3) in NG-108
 cells. The trimeric complex could be coimmunoprecipitated by antibodies
 against any of the three proteins. Sig-1R agonists such as pregnenolone
 sulfate and cocaine caused the dissociation of an ankyrin B isoform
 (ANK 220) from IP3R-3. This effect caused by Sig-1R
 agonists was blocked by a Sig-1R antagonist. The degree of dissociation
 of ANK 220 from IP3R-3 caused by Sig-1R ligands correlates
 excellently with the ligands' efficacies in potentiating the
 bradykinin-induced increase in cytosolic free Ca2+
 concentration. Immunocytohistochemistry showed that Sig-1R, ankyrin B,
 and IP3R-3 are colocalized in NG-108 cells in perinuclear
 areas and in regions of cell-to-cell communication. These results
 suggest that Sig-1R and associated ligands may play important roles in
 cells by controlling the function of cytoskeletal proteins and that the
 Sig-1R/ANK220/IP3R-3 complex regulating
 Ca2+ signaling may represent a site of action for
 neurosteroids and cocaine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous work has shown that cyclin A can be cleaved at
 Arg-70/Arg-71 by a proteolytic activity present in an in
 vitro-coupled transcription/translation system by using
 rabbit reticulocyte lysate programmed by plasmid DNA encoding
 p27KIP1, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, but not by
 plasmid DNAs encoding other cyclin-dependent kinases inhibitors. Here
 we report that cyclin A is also cleaved by translation product
 programmed by plasmid DNA encoding cyclin B. Several findings indicate
 that the cleavage activity in this assay is provided by the bacterial
 protease OmpT, which cofractionates with cyclin B and
 p27KIP1 plasmid DNAs and is thus carried over into the
 coupled in vitro transcription/translation reactions.
 (i) Cleavage activity appeared even when transcription
 or translation of the cyclin B or p27KIP1 was blocked.
 (ii) Activity resembling OmpT, a serine protease that
 cleaves between dibasic residues, routinely copurifies with
 p27KIP1 and cyclin B plasmid DNAs. (iii)
 Both cyclin A cleavage activity and OmpT activity are heat stable,
 resistant to denaturation, and inhibited by Zn2+,
 Cu2+, or benzamidine. (iv) Cyclin A cleavage
 activity is detected when using lysates or DNAs prepared from
 Escherichia coli strains that contained OmpT but not
 with strains lacking OmpT. (v) Purified OmpT enzyme
 itself cleaves cyclin A at R70/R71. These data indicate that OmpT can
 be present in certain DNA preparations obtained by using standard
 plasmid purification protocols, and its presence can potentially affect
 the outcome and interpretation of studies carried out using in
 vitro-translated proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified a family of resistin-like molecules (RELMs) in
 rodents and humans. Resistin is a hormone produced by fat cells.
 RELMα is a secreted protein that has a restricted tissue distribution
 with highest levels in adipose tissue. Another family member, RELMβ,
 is a secreted protein expressed only in the gastrointestinal tract,
 particularly the colon, in both mouse and human. RELMβ gene
 expression is highest in proliferative epithelial cells and is markedly
 increased in tumors, suggesting a role in intestinal proliferation.
 Resistin and the RELMs share a cysteine composition and other signature
 features. Thus, the RELMs together with resistin comprise a class of
 tissue-specific signaling molecules.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) secreted by macrophages in the artery
 wall exerts an important protective effect against the development of
 atherosclerosis, presumably through its ability to promote lipid
 efflux. Previous studies have shown that increases in cellular free
 cholesterol levels stimulate apoE transcription in macrophages and
 adipocytes; however, the molecular basis for this regulation is
 unknown. Recently, Taylor and colleagues [Shih, S. J., Allan, C.,
 Grehan, S., Tse, E., Moran, C. & Taylor, J. M. (2000)
 J. Biol. Chem. 275, 31567–31572] identified two
 enhancers from the human apoE gene, termed multienhancer 1 (ME.1) and
 multienhancer 2 (ME.2), that direct macrophage- and adipose-specific
 expression in transgenic mice. We demonstrate here that the nuclear
 receptors LXRα and LXRβ and their oxysterol ligands are key
 regulators of apoE expression in both macrophages and adipose tissue.
 We show that LXR/RXR heterodimers regulate apoE transcription
 directly, through interaction with a conserved LXR response element
 present in both ME.1 and ME.2. Moreover, we demonstrate that the
 ability of oxysterols and synthetic ligands to regulate apoE expression
 in adipose tissue and peritoneal macrophages is reduced in
 Lxrα−/− or Lxrβ−/− mice and
 abolished in double knockouts. Basal expression of apoE is not
 compromised in Lxr null mice, however, indicating that
 LXRs mediate lipid-inducible rather than tissue-specific expression of
 this gene. Together with our previous work, these findings support a
 central role for LXR signaling pathways in the control of macrophage
 cholesterol efflux through the coordinate regulation of apoE, ABCA1,
 and ABCG1 expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proteasome is the primary protease used by cells for degrading
 proteins and generating peptide ligands for class I molecules of the
 major histocompatibility complex. Based on the properties of cells
 adapted to grow in the presence of the proteasome inhibitor
 4-hydroxy-5-iodo-3-nitrophenylacetyl-Leu-Leu-leucinal-vinyl sulfone
 (NLVS), it was proposed that proteasomes can be replaced by alternative
 proteolytic systems, particularly a large proteolytic complex with a
 tripeptidyl peptidase II activity. Here we show that NLVS-adapted cells
 retain sensitivity to a number of highly specific proteasome inhibitors
 with regard to antigenic peptide generation, accumulation of
 polyubiquitinated proteins, degradation of p53, and cell viability. In
 addition, we show that in the same assays (with a single minor
 exception), NLVS-adapted cells are about as sensitive as nonselected
 cells to Ala-Ala-Phe-chloromethylketone, a specific inhibitor of
 tripeptidyl peptidase II activity. Based on these findings, we conclude
 that proteasomes still have essential proteolytic functions in adapted
 cells that are not replaced by Ala-Ala-Phe-chloromethylketone-sensitive
 proteases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The G12 subfamily of heterotrimeric G proteins, comprised of the
 α-subunits Gα12 and Gα13, has been implicated as a signaling
 component in cellular processes ranging from cytoskeletal changes to
 cell growth and oncogenesis. In an attempt to elucidate specific roles
 of this subfamily in cell regulation, we sought to identify molecular
 targets of Gα12. Here we show a specific interaction between the G12
 subfamily and the cytoplasmic tails of several members of the cadherin
 family of cell-surface adhesion proteins. Gα12 or Gα13 binding
 causes dissociation of the transcriptional activator β-catenin from
 cadherins. Furthermore, in cells lacking the adenomatous polyposis coli
 protein required for β-catenin degradation, expression of
 mutationally activated Gα12 or Gα13 causes an increase in
 β-catenin-mediated transcriptional activation. These findings provide
 a potential molecular mechanism for the previously reported cellular
 transforming ability of the G12 subfamily and reveal a link between
 heterotrimeric G proteins and cellular processes controlling growth and
 differentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Elucidating the genetic basis of adaptation on a genomewide scale
 has evaded biologists, but complete genome sequences and DNA
 high-density array technology make genomewide surveys more tractable.
 Six lines of Escherichia coli adapted for 2,000
 generations to a stressful high temperature of 41.5°C were examined
 on a genomewide scale for duplication/deletion events by using DNA
 high-density arrays. A total of five duplication and deletion events
 were detected. These five events occurred in three of the six lines,
 whereas the remaining three lines contained no detectable events. Three
 of the duplications were at 2.85 Mb of the E. coli
 chromosome, providing evidence for the replicability of the adaptation
 to high temperature. Four candidate genes previously shown to play
 roles in stress and starvation survival were identified in the region
 of common duplication. Expression of the two candidate genes examined
 is elevated over expression levels in the ancestral lines or the lines
 without the duplication. In the two cases where the duplication at 2.85
 Mb has been further characterized, the timing of the genome
 reorganization is coincident with significant increases in relative
 fitness. In both of these cases, the model for the origin of the
 duplication is a complex recombination event involving insertion
 sequences and repeat sequences. These results provide additional
 evidence for the idea that gene duplication plays an integral role
 in adaptation, specifically as a means for gene amplification.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Patterns of nucleotide sequence diversity in the
 predominantly self-fertilizing species Hordeum vulgare
 subspecies spontaneum (wild barley) are compared between
 the putative alcohol dehydrogenase 3 locus (denoted
 “adh3”) and alcohol dehydrogenase 1
 (adh1), two related but unlinked loci. The data consist
 of a sequence sample of 1,873 bp of “adh3” drawn
 from 25 accessions that span the species range. There were 104
 polymorphic sites in the sequenced region of
 “adh3.” The data reveal a strong geographic
 pattern of diversity at “adh3” despite geographic
 uniformity at adh1. Moreover, levels of nucleotide
 sequence diversity differ by nearly an order of magnitude between the
 two loci. Genealogical analysis resolved two distinct clusters of
 “adh3” alleles (dimorphic sequence types) that
 coalesce roughly 3 million years ago. One type consists of accessions
 from the Middle East, and the other consists of accessions
 predominantly from the Near East. The two “adh3”
 sequence types are characterized by a high level of differentiation
 between clusters (≈2.2%), which induces an overall excess of
 intermediate frequency variants in the pooled sample. Finally, there is
 evidence of intralocus recombination in the “adh3”
 data, despite the high level of self-fertilization characteristic of
 wild barley.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA from ancient human remains provides perspectives on the origin
 of our species and the relationship between molecular and morphological
 variation. We report analysis of mtDNA from the remains of 10 ancient
 Australians. These include the morphologically gracile
 Lake Mungo 3 [≈60 thousand years (ka) before present] and three
 other gracile individuals from Holocene deposits at
 Willandra Lakes (<10 ka), all within the skeletal range of living
 Australians, and six Pleistocene/early Holocene individuals (15 to
 <8 ka) from Kow Swamp with robust morphologies outside
 the skeletal range of contemporary indigenous Australians. Lake Mungo 3
 is the oldest (Pleistocene) “anatomically modern” human from whom
 DNA has been recovered. His mtDNA belonged to a lineage that only
 survives as a segment inserted into chromosome 11 of the nuclear
 genome, which is now widespread among human populations. This lineage
 probably diverged before the most recent common ancestor of
 contemporary human mitochondrial genomes. This timing of divergence
 implies that the deepest known mtDNA lineage from an anatomically
 modern human occurred in Australia; analysis restricted to living
 humans places the deepest branches in East Africa. The other ancient
 Australian individuals we examined have mtDNA sequences descended from
 the most recent common ancestor of living humans. Our results indicate
 that anatomically modern humans were present in Australia before the
 complete fixation of the mtDNA lineage now found in all living people.
 Sequences from additional ancient humans may further challenge current
 concepts of modern human origins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evolution produces complex and structured networks of interacting
 components in chemical, biological, and social systems. We describe a
 simple mathematical model for the evolution of an idealized chemical
 system to study how a network of cooperative molecular species arises
 and evolves to become more complex and structured. The network is
 modeled by a directed weighted graph whose positive and negative links
 represent “catalytic” and “inhibitory” interactions among
 the molecular species, and which evolves as the least populated species
 (typically those that go extinct) are replaced by new ones. A small
 autocatalytic set, appearing by chance, provides the seed for the
 spontaneous growth of connectivity and cooperation in the graph. A
 highly structured chemical organization arises inevitably as the
 autocatalytic set enlarges and percolates through the network in a
 short analytically determined timescale. This self organization does
 not require the presence of self-replicating species. The network also
 exhibits catastrophes over long timescales triggered by the chance
 elimination of “keystone” species, followed by recoveries.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The divergent evolution of protein sequences from genomic
 databases can be analyzed by the use of different mathematical models.
 The most common treat all sites in a protein sequence as equally
 variable. More sophisticated models acknowledge the fact that
 purifying selection generally tolerates variable amounts of amino acid
 replacement at different positions in a protein sequence. In their
 “stationary” versions, such models assume that the replacement
 rate at individual positions remains constant throughout evolutionary
 history. “Nonstationary” covarion versions, however, allow the
 replacement rate at a position to vary in different branches of the
 evolutionary tree. Recently, statistical methods have been developed
 that highlight this type of variation in replacement rates. Here, we
 show how positions that have variable rates of divergence in different
 regions of a tree (“covarion behavior”), coupled with analyses of
 experimental three-dimensional structures, can provide experimentally
 testable hypotheses that relate individual amino acid residues to
 specific functional differences in those branches. We illustrate this
 in the elongation factor family of proteins as a paradigm for
 applications of this type of analysis in functional genomics generally.
DOC DONE!Abstract
T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes are present in jawed vertebrates,
 including cartilaginous fishes, but not in jawless vertebrates or
 invertebrates. The origins of these lineages may be understood in terms
 of evolutionary changes in the structure and regulation of
 transcription factors that control lymphocyte development, such as
 PU.1. The identification and characterization of three members of the
 PU.1 family of transcription factors in a cartilaginous fish,
 Raja eglanteria, are described here. Two of these genes
 are orthologs of mammalian PU.1 and Spi-C, respectively, whereas the
 third gene, Spi-D, is a different family member. In addition, a
 PU.1-like gene has been identified in a jawless vertebrate,
 Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey). Both DNA-binding and
 transactivation domains are highly conserved between mammalian and
 skate PU.1, in marked contrast to lamprey Spi, in which similarity is
 evident only in the DNA-binding domain. Phylogenetic analysis of
 sequence data suggests that the appearance of Spi-C may predate the
 divergence of the jawed and jawless vertebrates and that Spi-D arose
 before the divergence of the cartilaginous fish from the lineage
 leading to the mammals. The tissue-specific expression patterns of
 skate PU.1 and Spi-C suggest that these genes share regulatory as well
 as structural properties with their mammalian orthologs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The rat zitter (zi) mutation induces hypomyelination
 and vacuolation in the central nervous system (CNS), which result in
 early-onset tremor and progressive flaccid paresis. By positional
 cloning, we found a marked decrease in Attractin (Atrn)
 mRNA in the brain of the zi/zi rat and
 identified zi as an 8-bp deletion at a splice donor site
 of Atrn. Atrn has been known to play multiple roles in
 regulating physiological processes that are involved in monocyte–T
 cell interaction, agouti-related hair pigmentation, and
 control of energy homeostasis. Rat Atrn gene encoded two
 isoforms, a secreted and a membrane form, as a result of alternative
 splicing. The zi mutation at the Atrn
 locus darkened coat color when introduced into agouti rats, as also
 described in mahogany (mg) mice, carrying the homozygous
 mutation at the Atrn locus. Transgenic rescue
 experiments showed that the membrane-type Atrn
 complemented both neurological alteration and abnormal pigmentation in
 zi/zi rats, but that the secreted-type
 Atrn complemented neither mutant phenotype. Furthermore,
 we discovered that mg mice exhibited hypomyelination and
 vacuolation in the CNS associated with body tremor. We conclude from
 these results that the membrane Atrn has a critical role
 in normal myelination in the CNS and would provide insights into the
 physiology of myelination as well as the etiology of myelin diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CpG islands are important in the protection of adjacent
 housekeeping genes from de novo DNA methylation and for
 keeping them in a transcriptionally active state. However, little is
 known about their capacity to protect heterologous genes and assure
 position-independent transcription of adjacent transgenes or retroviral
 vectors. To tackle this question, we have used the mouse
 aprt CpG island to flank a Rous sarcoma virus
 (RSV)-derived reporter vector and followed the transcriptional activity
 of integrated vectors. RSV is an avian retrovirus which does not
 replicate in mammalian cells because of several blocks at all levels of
 the replication cycle. Here we show that our RSV-derived reporter
 proviruses linked to the mouse aprt gene CpG island
 remain undermethylated and keep their transcriptional activity after
 stable transfection into both avian and nonpermissive mammalian cells.
 This effect is most likely caused by the protection from de
 novo methylation provided by the CpG island and not by
 enhancement of the promoter strength. Our results are consistent with
 previous finding of CpG islands in proximity to active but not inactive
 proviruses and support further investigation of the protection of the
 gene transfer vectors from DNA methylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The level of polyteny of the Drosophila salivary
 gland chromosomes was determined throughout the chromosome region
 89E1–4, the locus of the Bithorax Complex. A zone of
 underreplication spans the 300 kb of DNA from the Ubx to
 Abd-B loci. From the centromere proximal end of the
 complex, a 70-kb-long gradual decrease of polytenization starts with
 the Ubx transcription unit and, after a floor
 corresponding to the abd-A locus, raises gradually back
 to the maximum over 70 kb in the region of the Abd-B
 transcription unit. In flies carrying the mutation Suppressor of
 DNA Underreplication [Su(UR)ES], the
 underreplication of the Bithorax Complex is fully
 suppressed. In the wild type, the Bithorax Complex forms
 a weak point featuring thinner bands separated by clefts or
 constrictions. In Su(UR)ES strain in contrast, the
 89E1–4 band looks like a single solid band consisting of homogenous
 dense material. We speculate that the wild-type Su(UR)ES protein
 hampers DNA replication of silenced domains and leads to their
 underreplication in salivary gland polytene chromosomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations in several genes encoding transcription factors of
 the hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF) cascade are associated with
 maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY), a monogenic form of
 early-onset diabetes mellitus. The ability of the orphan nuclear
 receptor small heterodimer partner (SHP, NR0B2) to modulate the
 transcriptional activity of MODY1 protein, the nuclear receptor
 HNF-4α, suggested SHP as a candidate MODY gene. We screened 173
 unrelated Japanese subjects with early-onset diabetes for mutations in
 this gene and found five different mutations (H53fsdel10,
 L98fsdel9insAC, R34X, A195S, and R213C) in 6 subjects as well as one
 apparent polymorphism (R216H), all present in the heterozygous state.
 Interestingly, all of the subjects with the mutations were mildly or
 moderately obese at onset of diabetes, and analysis of the lineages of
 these individuals indicated that the SHP mutations were associated with
 obesity rather than with diabetes. Therefore, an additional group of
 101 unrelated nondiabetic subjects with early-onset obesity was
 screened for mutations in the SHP gene. Two of the previously observed
 mutations (R34X and A195S) and two additional mutations (R57W and
 G189E) were identified in 6 subjects, whereas no mutations were
 identified in 116 young nondiabetic lean controls
 (P = 0.0094). Functional studies of the mutant
 proteins show that the mutations result in the loss of SHP
 activity. These results suggest that genetic variation in the SHP gene
 contributes to increased body weight and reveal a pathway leading to
 this common metabolic disorder in Japanese.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe here a system for the rapid identification, assay
 development, and characterization of gene-based single nucleotide
 polymorphisms (SNPs). This system couples informatics tools that mine
 candidate SNPs from public expressed sequence tag resources and
 automatically designs assay reagents with detection by a chip-based
 matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass
 spectrometry platform. As a proof of concept of this system, a
 genomewide collection of reagents for 9,115 gene-based SNP genetic
 markers was rapidly developed and validated. These data provide
 preliminary insights into patterns of polymorphism in a genomewide
 collection of gene-based polymorphisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bipolar disorder or manic depressive illness is a major psychiatric
 disorder that is characterized by fluctuation between two abnormal mood
 states. Mania is accompanied by symptoms of euphoria, irritability, or
 excitation, whereas depression is associated with low mood and
 decreased motivation and energy. The etiology is currently unknown;
 however, numerous family, twin, and adoption studies have argued for a
 substantial genetic contribution. We have conducted a genome survey of
 bipolar disorder using 443 microsatellite markers in a set of 20
 families from the general North American population to identify
 possible susceptibility loci. A maximum logarithm of odds score of 3.8
 was obtained at D22S278 on 22q. Positive scores were found spanning a
 region of nearly 32 centimorgans (cM) on 22q, with a possible secondary
 peak at D22S419. Six other chromosomal regions yielded suggestive
 evidence for linkage: 3p21, 3q27, 5p15, 10q, 13q31-q34, and 21q22. The
 regions on 22q, 13q, and 10q have been implicated in studies of
 schizophrenia, suggesting the possible presence of susceptibility genes
 common to both disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We hypothesize that loss of imprinting (LOI) of the insulin-like
 growth factor II (IGF2) gene is associated with a
 predisposition to sporadic colorectal cancer. We confirmed a previously
 known strong correlation between LOI and microsatellite instability and
 showed that LOI was not a consequence of microsatellite instability or
 mismatch repair deficiency. LOI of IGF2 correlated
 strongly with biallelic hypermethylation of a core of five CpG sites in
 the insulator region of IGF2/H19, which is a known
 CTCF-binding element. As this methylation-dependent LOI was present in
 both tumors and normal colonic mucosa, it is possible that
 hypermethylation creates a field defect predisposing to cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes are present in jawed vertebrates,
 including cartilaginous fishes, but not in jawless vertebrates or
 invertebrates. The origins of these lineages may be understood in terms
 of evolutionary changes in the structure and regulation of
 transcription factors that control lymphocyte development, such as
 PU.1. The identification and characterization of three members of the
 PU.1 family of transcription factors in a cartilaginous fish,
 Raja eglanteria, are described here. Two of these genes
 are orthologs of mammalian PU.1 and Spi-C, respectively, whereas the
 third gene, Spi-D, is a different family member. In addition, a
 PU.1-like gene has been identified in a jawless vertebrate,
 Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey). Both DNA-binding and
 transactivation domains are highly conserved between mammalian and
 skate PU.1, in marked contrast to lamprey Spi, in which similarity is
 evident only in the DNA-binding domain. Phylogenetic analysis of
 sequence data suggests that the appearance of Spi-C may predate the
 divergence of the jawed and jawless vertebrates and that Spi-D arose
 before the divergence of the cartilaginous fish from the lineage
 leading to the mammals. The tissue-specific expression patterns of
 skate PU.1 and Spi-C suggest that these genes share regulatory as well
 as structural properties with their mammalian orthologs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent advances in the ability to detect people at the early
 stages of HIV infection now permit the initiation of antiretroviral
 treatment before the full complement of antiviral immune responses has
 evolved. However, the influence of early treatment interventions on the
 developing anti-HIV immune response is unknown. This study investigates
 the impact of standard highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)
 during the primary stages of HIV infection on the plasma HIV-1 RNA
 level, CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocyte counts, and the
 CD8+ cell anti-HIV response. Individuals treated with HAART
 within 6 months of infection showed dramatic and rapid reductions in
 HIV-1 RNA levels along with modest increases in CD4+ cell
 number and decreases in CD8+ cell numbers. A significant
 reduction in the level of CD8+ cell noncytotoxic
 suppression of HIV replication was observed over time in most
 participants receiving HAART. Importantly, those individuals choosing
 not to receive therapy maintained low but detectable HIV-1 RNA levels
 and showed no reduction in their CD8+ cell antiviral
 response. These results suggest that either continued antigenic
 challenge is required to sustain CD8+ cell-mediated
 anti-HIV activity, or that HAART has some inhibitory effect on this
 important immunologic function during the early stages of infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Induction of resting B cell growth and differentiation
 requires a complex series of temporally coordinated signals that are
 initiated on contact with activated helper T cells. These signals
 complement one another, each rendering the B cell susceptible to
 factors supporting progressive activation. Here, we demonstrate that
 soluble CD14 (sCD14) bypasses the physiological sequelae of events that
 limit B cell activation. B cell growth and differentiation in
 vitro is induced by both native and recombinant forms of sCD14
 at nanomolar concentrations. sCD14-mediated cellular activation
 does not require membrane CD14 expression, depends on a region of CD14
 that is not involved in lipopolysaccharide binding, and requires
 functional Toll-like receptor 4. Consistent with biological activity of
 sCD14 in vitro, its administration to neonatal mice
 enhances Ig secretion. The results presented establish sCD14 as a
 naturally occurring soluble B cell mitogen of mammalian origin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pre-T cell receptor (preTCR)-derived signals mediate the transition
 of thymocytes from the CD4− CD8−
 double-negative (DN) to CD4+ CD8+
 double-positive stage of T lymphocyte development. This progression,
 termed β-selection, is limited to thymocytes that have generated a
 functional TCR-β chain able to associate with pTα to form the
 preTCR complex. Formation of the preTCR complex not only induces
 differentiation, survival, and proliferation of DN thymocytes; it also
 inhibits further TCR-β gene rearrangement through an ill-defined
 process known as allelic exclusion. The signaling pathways controlling
 this critical developmental checkpoint have not been characterized.
 Here we demonstrate that formation of the preTCR complex leads to the
 activation of protein kinase C (PKC), and that activation of PKC is
 necessary for the differentiation and expansion of DN thymocytes.
 Importantly, we also show that allelic exclusion at the TCR-β gene
 loci is enforced by PKC-mediated signals. These results define PKC as a
 central mediator of both differentiation and allelic exclusion during
 thymocyte development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adrenomedullin, a recently identified potent vasodilator, is
 expressed widely and has been suggested to have functions ranging from
 reproduction to blood pressure regulation. To elucidate these functions
 and define more precisely sites of Adm expression, we replaced the
 coding region of the Adm gene in mice with a sequence
 encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein while leaving the
 Adm promoter intact. We find that
 Adm−/− embryos die at midgestation with
 extreme hydrops fetalis and cardiovascular abnormalities, including
 overdeveloped ventricular trabeculae and underdeveloped arterial walls.
 These data suggest that genetically determined absence of
 Adm may be one cause of nonimmune hydrops fetalis in
 humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have shown previously that a polymeric form of fibronectin is
 strongly antimetastatic when administered systemically to tumor-bearing
 mice. The polymeric fibronectin, sFN, is formed in vitro
 by treating soluble fibronectin with a 76-aa peptide, III1-C, which is
 derived from the first type III repeat in fibronectin. Here we show
 that the III1-C peptide and sFN also reduce tumor growth in mice, and
 that this effect correlates with a low density of blood vessels in the
 tumors of the treated mice. III1-C also polymerized fibrinogen, and the
 fibrinogen polymer, sFBG, had antitumor and antiangiogenic effects
 similar to those of sFN. Mice that had been injected s.c. with three
 different types of human tumor cells and treated with biweekly i.p.
 injections of III1-C, sFN, or sFBG over a 5-week period had tumors that
 were 50–90% smaller than those of control mice. Blood vessel density
 in the tumors of the treated mice was reduced by 60–80% at the end of
 the experiment. Xenograft tumors from a human breast carcinoma line
 (MDA-MB-435) were particularly susceptible to these treatments.
 Metastasis into the lungs from the primary s.c. tumors also was
 inhibited in the mice treated with III1-C and the two polymers. The
 III1-C peptide is an antiangiogenic and antimetastatic agent. Because
 of its ability to suppress tumor growth, angiogenesis, and metastasis,
 we have named the III1-C peptide anastellin [from
 anastello (Greek), inhibit, force a retreat].
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dopamine is a major neurotransmitter in the central nervous system,
 and its receptors are associated with a number of neuropathological
 disorders such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. Although the
 precise pathophysiology of schizophrenia remains unknown, the
 dopaminergic hypothesis of the illness assumes that the illness results
 from excessive activity at dopamine synapses in the brain. Because, at
 present, the diagnosis of schizophrenia relies on descriptive
 behavioral and symptomatic information, a peripheral measurable marker
 may enable a simpler, more rapid, and more accurate diagnosis and
 monitoring. In recent years, human peripheral blood lymphocytes have
 been found to express several dopamine receptors (D3,
 D4, and D5) by using molecular biology
 techniques and binding assays. It has been suggested that these
 dopamine receptors found on lymphocytes may reflect receptors found in
 the brain. Here we demonstrate a correlation between the D3
 dopamine receptor on lymphocytes and schizophrenia and show a
 significant elevation of at least 2-fold in the mRNA level of the
 D3, but not of the D4, dopamine receptor in
 schizophrenic patients. This increase is not affected by different
 antipsychotic drug treatments (typical or atypical). Moreover,
 nonmedicated patients exhibit the same pattern, indicating that this
 change is not a result of medical treatment. We propose the
 D3 receptor mRNA on blood lymphocytes as a marker for
 identification and followup of schizophrenia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a group of skin neoplasms
 that originate from T lymphocytes and are difficult to treat in
 advanced stages. The present study is aimed at the identification of
 tumor-specific antigens from a human testis cDNA library using human
 sera known as the SEREX (serological identification of recombinantly
 expressed genes) approach. A cDNA library from normal testicle tissue
 was prepared and approximately 2 million recombinants were screened
 with sera from Sézary Syndrome and Mycosis fungoides patients. A
 total of 28 positive clones belonging to 15 different genes/ORFs were
 identified, including five hitherto unknown sequences. Whereas control
 sera did not react with most clones, 11–71% sera from CTCL patients
 were reactive against the identified clones. Expression analysis on 28
 normal control and 17 CTCL tissues by reverse transcription–PCR
 (RT-PCR) and Northern blotting revealed seven ubiquitously distributed
 antigens, six differentially expressed antigens (several normal tissues
 were positive), and two tumor-specific antigens that were expressed
 only in testis and tumor tissues: (i) A SCP-1-like
 sequence, which has already been detected in various tumors, has been
 found in one CTCL tumor and four sera of CTCL patients reacted with
 various SCP-1-like clones and (ii) a new sequence named
 cTAGE-1 (CTCL-associated antigen 1) was detected in 35% of CTCL tumor
 tissues and sera of 6/18 patients reacted with this clone. The
 present study unravels CTCL-associated antigens independent of the
 T-cell receptor. The SCP-1-like gene and cTAGE-1 were shown to be
 immunogenic and immunologically tumor-specific and may therefore be
 candidates for immunotherapy targeting CTCL.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A role of apoptosis (programmed cell death) in tumor
 formation and growth was investigated by targeting the
 apoptosis inhibitor survivin in vivo. Expression
 of a phosphorylation-defective survivin mutant
 (Thr34→Ala) triggered apoptosis in several human
 melanoma cell lines and enhanced cell death induced by the
 chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin in vitro. Conditional
 expression of survivin Thr34→Ala in YUSAC2 melanoma cells
 prevented tumor formation upon s.c. injection into CB.17 severe
 combined immunodeficient-beige mice. When induced in established
 melanoma tumors, survivin Thr34→Ala inhibited tumor
 growth by 60–70% and caused increased apoptosis and reduced
 proliferation of melanoma cells in vivo. Manipulation of
 the antiapoptotic pathway maintained by survivin may be
 beneficial for cancer therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT1) is a severe autosomal recessive
 metabolic disease associated with point mutations in the human
 fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (FAH) gene that disrupt
 tyrosine catabolism. An acute form of HT1 results in death during the
 first months of life because of hepatic failure, whereas a chronic form
 leads to gradual development of liver disease often accompanied by
 renal dysfunction, childhood rickets, neurological crisis, and
 hepatocellular carcinoma. Mice homozygous for certain chromosome 7
 deletions of the albino Tyr; c locus that
 also include Fah die perinatally as a result of liver
 dysfunction and exhibit a complex syndrome characterized by structural
 abnormalities and alterations in gene expression in the liver and
 kidney. Here we report that two independent, postnatally lethal
 mutations induced by
 N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea and mapped near
 Tyr are alleles of Fah. The
 Fah6287SB allele is a missense mutation in
 exon 6, and Fah5961SB is a splice mutation
 causing loss of exon 7, a subsequent frameshift in the resulting mRNA,
 and a severe reduction of Fah mRNA levels. Increased
 levels of the diagnostic metabolite succinylacetone in the urine of the
 Fah6287SB and
 Fah5961SB mutants indicate that these
 mutations cause a decrease in Fah enzymatic activity. Thus, the
 neonatal phenotype present in both mutants is due to a deficiency in
 Fah caused by a point mutation, and we propose
 Fah5961SB and
 Fah6287SB as mouse models for acute and
 chronic forms of human HT1, respectively.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Reports differ as to whether reconstitution of telomerase
 activity alone is sufficient for immortalization of different types of
 human somatic cells or whether additional activities encoded by other
 “immortalizing” genes are also required. Here we show that
 ectopic expression of either the catalytic subunit of human telomerase
 (hTERT) or a temperature-sensitive mutant (U19tsA58) of simian virus 40
 large-tumor antigen alone was not sufficient for immortalization of
 freshly isolated normal adult human mammary fibroblasts and endothelial
 cells. However, a combination of both genes resulted in the efficient
 generation of immortal cell lines irrespective of the order in which
 they were introduced or whether they were introduced early or late in
 the normal proliferative lifespan of the cultures. The order and timing
 of transduction, however, did influence genomic stability. Karyotype
 analysis indicated that introduction of both transgenes at early
 passage, with hTERT first, yielded diploid cell lines.
 Temperature-shift experiments revealed that maintenance of the
 immortalized state depended on continued expression of functional
 U19tsA58 large-tumor antigen, with hTERT alone unable to maintain
 growth at nonpermissive temperatures for U19tsA58 large-tumor
 antigen. Such conditional diploid lines may provide a useful
 resource for both cell engineering and for studies on immortalization
 and in vitro transformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Integrons are genetic elements that acquire and exchange exogenous
 DNA, known as gene cassettes, by a site-specific recombination
 mechanism. Characterized gene cassettes consist of a target
 recombination sequence (attC site) usually associated
 with a single open reading frame coding for an antibiotic resistance
 determinant. The affiliation of multiresistant integrons (MRIs), which
 contain various combinations of antibiotic resistance gene cassettes,
 with transferable elements underlies the rapid evolution of multidrug
 resistance among diverse Gram-negative bacteria. Yet the origin of MRIs
 remains unknown. Recently, a chromosomal super-integron (SI) harboring
 hundreds of cassettes was identified in the Vibrio
 cholerae genome. Here, we demonstrate that the activity of its
 associated integrase is identical to that of the MRI integrase, IntI1.
 We have also identified equivalent integron superstructures in nine
 distinct genera throughout the γ-proteobacterial radiation.
 Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the evolutionary history of the
 system paralleled that of the radiation, indicating that integrons are
 ancient structures. The attC sites of the 63
 antibiotic-resistance gene cassettes identified thus far in MRIs are
 highly variable. Strikingly, one-fifth of these were virtually
 identical to the highly related yet species-specific
 attC sites of the SIs described here. Furthermore,
 antimicrobial resistance homologues were identified among the thousands
 of genes entrapped by these SIs. Because the gene cassettes of SIs are
 substrates for MRIs, these data identify SIs as the source of
 contemporary MRIs and their cassettes. However, our demonstration of
 the metabolic functions, beyond antibiotic resistance and virulence, of
 three distinct SI gene cassettes indicates that integrons function as a
 general gene-capture system for bacterial innovation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The highly pathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus/HIV
 type 1 (SHIV) chimeric virus SHIVDH12R induces a systemic
 depletion of CD4+ T lymphocytes in rhesus monkeys during
 the initial 3–4 weeks of infection. Nonetheless, high levels of viral
 RNA production continue unabated for an additional 2–5 months.
 In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses
 revealed that tissue macrophage in the lymph nodes, spleen,
 gastrointestinal tract, liver, and kidney sustain high plasma virus
 loads in the absence of CD4+ T cells. Quantitative confocal
 immunofluorescence analysis indicated that greater than 95% of the
 virus-producing cells in these tissues are macrophage and less than 2%
 are T lymphocytes. Interestingly, the administration of a potent
 reverse transcriptase inhibitor blocked virus production during the
 early T cell phase but not during the later macrophage phase of the
 SHIVDH12R infection. When interpreted in the context of
 HIV-1 infections, these results implicate tissue macrophage as an
 important reservoir of virus in vivo. They become
 infected during the acute infection, gradually increase in number over
 time, and can be a major contributor to total body virus burden during
 the symptomatic phase of the human infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bunyamwera virus (family Bunyaviridae, genus
 Bunyavirus) contains a tripartite negative-sense RNA
 genome. The smallest RNA segment, S, encodes the nucleocapsid protein N
 and a nonstructural protein, NSs, in overlapping reading frames. We
 have generated a mutant virus lacking NSs, called BUNdelNSs, by reverse
 genetics. Compared with the wild-type (wt) virus, BUNdelNSs exhibited a
 smaller plaque size and generated titers of virus approximately 1 log
 lower. In mammalian cells, the mutant expressed greatly increased
 levels of N protein; significantly, the marked inhibition of host cell
 protein synthesis shown by wt virus was considerably impaired by
 BUNdelNSs. When inoculated by the intracerebral route BUNdelNSs killed
 BALB/c mice with a slower time course than wt and exhibited a reduced
 cell-to-cell spread, and titers of virus in the brain were lower. In
 addition, the abrogation of NSs expression changed Bunyamwera virus
 from a noninducer to an inducer of an interferon-β promoter. These
 results suggest that, although not essential for growth in tissue
 culture or in mice, the bunyavirus NSs protein has several functions in
 the virus life cycle and contributes to viral pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genome of Borrelia burgdorferi encodes a large
 number of lipoproteins, many of which are expressed only at certain
 stages of the spirochete's life cycle. In the current study we
 describe the B. burgdorferi population structure with
 respect to the production of two lipoproteins [outer surface protein A
 (OspA) and outer surface protein C (OspC)] during transmission from
 the tick vector to the mammalian host. Before the blood meal, the
 bacteria in the tick were a homogeneous population that mainly produced
 OspA only. During the blood meal, the population became more
 heterogeneous; many bacteria produced both OspA and OspC, whereas
 others produced only a single Osp and a few produced neither Osp. From
 the heterogeneous spirochetal population in the gut, a subset depleted
 of OspA entered the salivary glands and stably infected the host at
 time points >53 hr into the blood meal. We also examined genetic
 heterogeneity at the B. burgdorferi vlsE locus before
 and during the blood meal. In unfed ticks, the vlsE
 locus was stable and one predominant and two minor alleles were
 detected. During the blood meal, multiple vlsE alleles
 were observed in the tick. Tick feeding may increase recombination at
 the vlsE locus or selectively amplify rare
 vlsE alleles present in unfed ticks. On the basis of our
 data we propose a model, which is different from the established model
 for B. burgdorferi transmission. Implicit in our model
 is the concept that tick transmission converts a homogeneous spirochete
 population into a heterogeneous population that is poised to infect the
 mammalian host.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A baseline or control state is fundamental to the understanding of
 most complex systems. Defining a baseline state in the human brain,
 arguably our most complex system, poses a particular challenge. Many
 suspect that left unconstrained, its activity will vary unpredictably.
 Despite this prediction we identify a baseline state of the normal
 adult human brain in terms of the brain oxygen extraction fraction or
 OEF. The OEF is defined as the ratio of oxygen used by the brain to
 oxygen delivered by flowing blood and is remarkably uniform in the
 awake but resting state (e.g., lying quietly with eyes closed). Local
 deviations in the OEF represent the physiological basis of signals of
 changes in neuronal activity obtained with functional MRI during a wide
 variety of human behaviors. We used quantitative metabolic and
 circulatory measurements from positron-emission tomography to obtain
 the OEF regionally throughout the brain. Areas of activation were
 conspicuous by their absence. All significant deviations from the mean
 hemisphere OEF were increases, signifying deactivations, and resided
 almost exclusively in the visual system. Defining the baseline state of
 an area in this manner attaches meaning to a group of areas that
 consistently exhibit decreases from this baseline, during a wide
 variety of goal-directed behaviors monitored with positron-emission
 tomography and functional MRI. These decreases suggest the existence of
 an organized, baseline default mode of brain function that is suspended
 during specific goal-directed behaviors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Regional cerebral blood flow (BF) was examined in regions of the
 medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) with positron-emission tomography while
 subjects performed two cognitive tasks, reading nouns aloud and
 generating appropriate verbs for the same nouns. The control task was
 passive viewing of the same words. BF was reduced in regions of the
 MPFC during word reading and naïve verb generation, relative to
 a control state in which the subjects passively viewed nouns.
 Practicing verb generation produced improved performance, as measured
 by response time, which was strongly correlated with further reductions
 in MPFC and hypothalamic BF. After practice, when verb generation
 was performed on a novel list of words, reaction times slowed and the
 pattern of MPFC BF reverted to that seen in the word reading and
 naïve conditions. A separate behavioral study of the
 verb-generation task indicated that anxiety, high during naïve
 use-generation as measured by heart rate and self-report, decreased
 with practice on the task but returned with the introduction of a novel
 list of words. Taken together, these results suggest that the MPFC is
 part of a network, including the hypothalamus and brainstem, whose
 activity reflects a dynamic interplay between cognitive task
 performance and emotion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Regional cerebral blood flow (BF) was examined in the human
 medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) with positron emission tomography
 during anticipatory anxiety. Transient anxiety was induced in normal
 subjects by having them anticipate a painful shock to the fingers of
 one hand. BF was decreased during anticipatory anxiety, relative to an
 eyes-closed resting condition, in two regions of the MPFC (Brodmann
 Areas 10/32 and 24/25). BF decreases in these areas were inversely
 correlated with anxiety self rating, such that the least
 anxious subjects exhibited the largest BF reductions, whereas the most
 anxious subjects showed no significant BF reduction or a slight
 increase. BF changes in MPFC and in the midbrain were correlated with
 each other and with anxiety self rating. These results are consistent
 with the hypothesis that BF reductions in MPFC, previously observed in
 cognitive tasks, reflect a dynamic balance between focused attention
 and subject anxiety and may occur from a functionally active baseline
 or default state. The characterization of such relationships within the
 human brain enables new insights into the integration of cognition and
 emotion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Functional connectivity between cortical areas may appear as
 correlated time behavior of neural activity. It has been suggested that
 merging of separate features into a single percept (“binding”) is
 associated with coherent gamma band activity across the cortical areas
 involved. Therefore, it would be of utmost interest to image
 cortico-cortical coherence in the working human brain. The frequency
 specificity and transient nature of these interactions requires
 time-sensitive tools such as magneto- or electroencephalography
 (MEG/EEG). Coherence between signals of sensors covering different
 scalp areas is commonly taken as a measure of functional coupling.
 However, this approach provides vague information on the actual
 cortical areas involved, owing to the complex relation between the
 active brain areas and the sensor recordings. We propose a solution to
 the crucial issue of proceeding beyond the MEG sensor level to estimate
 coherences between cortical areas. Dynamic imaging of coherent sources
 (DICS) uses a spatial filter to localize coherent brain regions and
 provides the time courses of their activity. Reference points for the
 computation of neural coupling may be based on brain areas of maximum
 power or other physiologically meaningful information, or they may be
 estimated starting from sensor coherences. The performance of DICS is
 evaluated with simulated data and illustrated with recordings of
 spontaneous activity in a healthy subject and a parkinsonian patient.
 Methods for estimating functional connectivities between brain areas
 will facilitate characterization of cortical networks involved in
 sensory, motor, or cognitive tasks and will allow investigation of
 pathological connectivities in neurological disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Based on a molecular neuroendocrine theory about cold environments,
 thyroid hormone levels, and liganded thyroid hormone receptor
 interference with estrogen receptor function, experiments were designed
 to test female mouse reproductive behaviors in the cold. Because
 natural seasonal temperature declines would usually be associated with
 decreased photoperiods and reduced food supplies, we combined cold
 temperatures with short days and metabolic challenge. The simplest
 hypothesis was that lordosis quotients would be significantly reduced
 as a result of cold temperatures. That hypothesis was denied. Instead,
 female approaches to the stud male declined. Because cold temperatures
 also led to significant reductions of activity in locomotor wheels, a
 straightforward reduction of activity could explain the female's
 behavior during mating tests. We suggest that cold temperatures
 accompanied by reduced photoperiod and reduced metabolic fuel can
 reduce overall activity in female mice, thus indirectly blocking
 untimely reproductive behaviors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is an open question how ion channel subunits that lack
 protein–protein binding motifs become targeted and covalently modified
 by cellular signaling enzymes. Here, we show that Src-family protein
 tyrosine kinases (PTKs) bind to heteromultimeric
 Shaker-family voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels by
 interactions between the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain and the
 proline-rich SH3 domain ligand sequence in the
 Shaker-family subunit Kv1.5. Once bound to Kv1.5,
 Src-family PTKs phosphorylate adjacent subunits in the Kv channel
 heteromultimer that lack proline-rich SH3 domain ligand sequences. This
 SH3-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation contributes to significant
 suppression of voltage-evoked currents flowing through the
 heteromultimeric channel. These results demonstrate that Kv1.5 subunits
 function as SH3-dependent adaptor proteins that marshal Src-family
 kinases to heteromultimeric potassium channel signaling complexes, and
 thereby confer functional sensitivity upon coassembled channel subunits
 that are themselves not bound directly to Src-family kinases by
 allowing their phosphorylation. This is a mechanism for information
 transfer between subunits in heteromultimeric ion channels that is
 likely to underlie the generation of combinatorial signaling diversity
 in the control of cellular electrical excitability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cardiac afferents are sensory neurons that mediate angina, pain
 that occurs when the heart receives insufficient blood supply for its
 metabolic demand (ischemia). These neurons display enormous acid-evoked
 depolarizing currents, and they fire action potentials in response to
 extracellular acidification that accompanies myocardial ischemia. Here
 we show that acid-sensing ion channel 3 (ASIC3), but no other known
 acid-sensing ion channel, reproduces the functional features of the
 channel that underlies the large acid-evoked current in cardiac
 afferents. ASIC3 and the native channel are both especially sensitive
 to pH, interact similarly with Ca2+, and gate rapidly
 between closed, open, and desensitized states. Particularly important
 is the ability of ASIC3 and the native channel to open at pH 7, a value
 reached in the first few minutes of a heart attack. The steep
 activation curve suggests that the channel opens when four protons
 bind. We propose that ASIC3, a member of the degenerin channel (of
 Caenorhabditis elegans)/epithelial sodium channel
 family of ion channels, is the sensor of myocardial acidity that
 triggers cardiac pain, and that it might be a useful pharmaceutical
 target for treating angina.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ankyrin is a cytoskeletal adaptor protein that controls important
 cellular functions, including Ca2+ efflux at inositol
 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R) on the endoplasmic
 reticulum. The present study found that sigma-1 receptors (Sig-1R),
 unique endoplasmic reticulum proteins that bind certain steroids,
 neuroleptics, and psychotropic drugs, form a trimeric complex with
 ankyrin B and IP3R type 3 (IP3R-3) in NG-108
 cells. The trimeric complex could be coimmunoprecipitated by antibodies
 against any of the three proteins. Sig-1R agonists such as pregnenolone
 sulfate and cocaine caused the dissociation of an ankyrin B isoform
 (ANK 220) from IP3R-3. This effect caused by Sig-1R
 agonists was blocked by a Sig-1R antagonist. The degree of dissociation
 of ANK 220 from IP3R-3 caused by Sig-1R ligands correlates
 excellently with the ligands' efficacies in potentiating the
 bradykinin-induced increase in cytosolic free Ca2+
 concentration. Immunocytohistochemistry showed that Sig-1R, ankyrin B,
 and IP3R-3 are colocalized in NG-108 cells in perinuclear
 areas and in regions of cell-to-cell communication. These results
 suggest that Sig-1R and associated ligands may play important roles in
 cells by controlling the function of cytoskeletal proteins and that the
 Sig-1R/ANK220/IP3R-3 complex regulating
 Ca2+ signaling may represent a site of action for
 neurosteroids and cocaine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous reports that investigated the regulation of the
 NO/soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC)/cGMP pathway by estrogenic
 compounds have focused primarily on the levels of NO, NO-producing
 enzymes, and cGMP in various tissues. In this study, we demonstrate
 that 17β-estradiol (E2) regulates the α1 and
 β1 subunits of the NO receptor, sGC, at the mRNA and
 protein levels in rat uterus. Using real-time quantitative PCR, we
 found that within 1 h of in vivo E2 administration
 to rats, sGC mRNA levels begin to diminish. After 3 h, there is a
 maximal diminution of sGC mRNA expression (sGC α1 10%
 and sGC β1 33% of untreated). This effect was blocked by
 the estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI 182,780, indicating that estrogen
 receptor is required. The effect of E2 also was observed in
 vitro with incubations of uterine tissue, indicating that the
 response does not depend on the secondary release of other hormones or
 factors from other tissues. Puromycin did not block the effect,
 suggesting the effects occur because of preexisting factors in uterine
 tissues and do not require new protein synthesis. Using immunoblot
 analysis, we found that sGC protein levels also were reduced by E2 over
 a similar time course as the sGC mRNA. We conclude that sGC plays a
 vital role in the NO/sGC/cGMP regulatory pathway during conditions
 of elevated estrogen levels in the rat uterus as a result of the
 reduction of sGC expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Substantial ATP supply by glycolysis is thought to reflect cellular
 anoxia in vertebrate muscle. An alternative hypothesis is that the
 lactate generated during contraction reflects sustained glycolytic ATP
 supply under well-oxygenated conditions. We distinguished these
 hypotheses by comparing intracellular glycolysis during anoxia to
 lactate efflux from muscle during sustained, aerobic contractions. We
 examined the tailshaker muscle of the rattlesnake because of its
 uniform cell properties, exclusive blood circulation, and ability to
 sustain rattling for prolonged periods. Here we show that glycolysis is
 independent of the O2 level and supplies one-third of the
 high ATP demands of sustained tailshaking. Fatigue is avoided by rapid
 H+ and lactate efflux resulting from blood flow rates that
 are among the highest reported for vertebrate muscle. These results
 reject the hypothesis that glycolysis necessarily reflects cellular
 anoxia. Instead, they demonstrate that glycolysis can provide a high
 and sustainable supply of ATP along with oxidative phosphorylation
 without muscle fatigue.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ATP-sensitive potassium channels are an octomeric complex of
 four pore-forming subunits of the Kir 6.0 family and four sulfonylurea
 receptors. The Kir 6.0 family consists of two known members, Kir 6.1
 and Kir 6.2, with distinct functional properties. The tetrameric
 structure of the pore-forming domain leads to the possibility that
 mixed heteromultimers may form. In this study, we examine this by using
 biochemical and electrophysiological techniques after heterologous
 expression of these subunits in HEK293 cells. After the coexpression of
 Kir 6.1 and Kir 6.2, Kir 6.1 can be coimmunoprecipitated with
 isoform-specific Kir 6.2 antisera and vice versa. Coexpression of SUR2B
 and Kir 6.2 with Kir 6.1 dominant negatives at a 1:1 expression ratio
 and vice versa led to a potent suppression of current. Kir 6.1, and Kir
 6.2 dominant negative mutants were without effect on an inwardly
 rectifying potassium channel from a different family, Kir 2.1.
 Single-channel analysis, after coexpression of SUR2B, Kir 6.1, and Kir
 6.2, revealed the existence of five distinct populations with differing
 single-channel current amplitudes. All channel populations were
 inhibited by glibenclamide. A dimeric Kir 6.1–Kir 6.2 construct
 expressed with SUR2B had a single-channel conductance intermediate
 between that of either Kir 6.2 or Kir 6.1 expressed with SUR2B. In
 conclusion, Kir 6.1 and Kir 6.2 readily coassemble to produce
 functional channels, and such phenomena may contribute to the diversity
 of nucleotide-regulated potassium currents seen in native tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The present study explored the role of myoglobin (Mb) in cardiac NO
 homeostasis and its functional relevance by employing isolated hearts
 of wild-type (WT) and myoglobin knockout mice. 1H NMR
 spectroscopy was used to measure directly the conversion of oxygenated
 Mb (MbO2) to metmyoglobin (metMb) by reaction with NO. NO
 was applied intracoronarily (5 nM to 25 μM), or its
 endogenous production was stimulated with bradykinin (Bk;
 10 nM to 2 μM). We found that infusion of authentic NO solutions
 dose-dependently (≥ 2.5 μM NO) increased metMb formation in WT
 hearts that was rapidly reversible on cessation of NO infusion.
 Likewise, Bk-induced release of NO was associated with significant
 metMb formation in the WT (≥1 μM Bk). Hearts lacking Mb reacted more
 sensitively to infused NO in that vasodilatation and the
 cardiodepressant actions of NO were more pronounced. Similar results
 were obtained with Bk. The lower sensitivity of WT hearts to changes in
 NO concentration fits well with the hypothesis that in the presence of
 Mb, a continuous degradation of NO takes place by reaction of
 MbO2 + NO to metMb + NO3−, thereby
 effectively reducing cytosolic NO concentration. This breakdown
 protects myocytic cytochromes against transient rises in cytosolic NO.
 Regeneration of metMb by metMb reductase to Mb and subsequent
 association with O2 leads to reformation of
 MbO2 available for another NO degradation cycle. Our data
 indicate that this cycle is crucial in the breakdown of NO and
 substantially determines the dose–response curve of the NO effects on
 coronary blood flow and cardiac contractility.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hypersensitive response (HR), a form of programmed cell death, is
 frequently associated with plant disease resistance. It has been
 proposed that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades regulate
 HR cell death based on pharmacological studies by using kinase
 inhibitors. However, direct evidence is lacking. Here, we demonstrate
 that NtMEK2, a MAPK kinase, is upstream of salicylic acid-induced
 protein kinase (SIPK) and wounding-induced protein kinase (WIPK), two
 tobacco MAPKs that are activated by various pathogens or
 pathogen-derived elicitors. Expression of a constitutively active
 mutant of NtMEK2 induces HR-like cell death in tobacco,
 which is preceded by the activation of endogenous SIPK and
 WIPK. In addition, NtMEK2-SIPK/WIPK cascade appears to control the
 expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase
 (HMGR) and l-phenylalanine ammonia lyase
 (PAL), two defense genes encoding key enzymes in the
 phytoalexin and salicylic acid biosynthesis pathways. These results
 demonstrate that a plant MAPK cascade controls multiple defense
 responses against pathogen invasion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To facilitate plant colonization, some pathogenic fungi produce
 phytotoxic metabolites that damage tissues; plants may be resistant to
 a particular pathogen if they produce an enzyme(s) that catalyzes
 detoxification of this metabolite(s). Alternaria blackspot is one of
 the most damaging and significant fungal diseases of brassica crops,
 with no source of resistance known within the Brassica
 species. Destruxin B is the major phytotoxin produced by the
 blackspot-causing fungus, Alternaria brassicae (Berkley)
 Saccardo. We have established that a blackspot-resistant species
 (Sinapis alba) metabolized 14C-labeled
 destruxin B to a less toxic product substantially faster than any of
 the susceptible species. The first metabolite, hydroxydestruxin B
 (14C-labeled), was further biotransformed to the
 β-d-glucosyl derivative at a slower rate. The structures
 of hydroxydestruxin B and β-d-glucosyl
 hydroxydestruxin B were deduced from their spectroscopic data
 [NMR, high resolution (HR)-MS, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR)] and
 confirmed by total chemical synthesis. Although these hydroxylation and
 glucosylation reactions occurred in both resistant (S.
 alba) and susceptible (Brassica napus,
 Brassica juncea, and Brassica rapa)
 species, hydroxylation was the rate limiting step in the susceptible
 species, whereas glucosylation was the rate limiting step in the
 resistant species. Remarkably, it was observed that the
 hydroxydestruxin B induced the biosynthesis of phytoalexins in
 blackspot-resistant species but not in susceptible species. This
 appears to be a unique example of phytotoxin detoxification and
 simultaneous phytoalexin elicitation by the detoxification product. Our
 studies suggest that S. alba can overcome the fungal
 invader through detoxification of destruxin B coupled with production
 of phytoalexins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The chemical structures and accumulation kinetics of several
 major soluble as well as wall-bound, alkali-hydrolyzable compounds
 induced upon infection of Arabidopsis thaliana leaves
 with Pseudomonas syringae pathovar tomato were
 established. All identified accumulating products were structurally
 related to tryptophan. Most prominent among the soluble substances were
 tryptophan, β-d-glucopyranosyl indole-3-carboxylic acid,
 6-hydroxyindole-3-carboxylic acid
 6-O-β-d-glucopyranoside, and the
 indolic phytoalexin camalexin. The single major accumulating wall
 component detectable under these conditions was indole-3-carboxylic
 acid. All of these compounds increased more rapidly, and camalexin as
 well as indole-3-carboxylic acid reached much higher levels, in the
 incompatible than in the compatible P. syringae/A.
 thaliana interaction. The only three prominent phenylpropanoid
 derivatives present in the soluble extract behaved differently.
 Two kaempferol glycosides remained largely unaffected, and sinapoyl
 malate decreased strongly upon bacterial infection with a time course
 inversely correlated with that of the accumulating tryptophan-related
 products. The accumulation patterns of both soluble and wall-bound
 compounds, as well as the disease resistance phenotypes, were
 essentially the same for infected wild-type and tt4 (no
 kaempferol glycosides) or fah1 (no sinapoyl malate)
 mutant plants. Largely different product combinations accumulated in
 wounded or senescing A. thaliana leaves. It seems
 unlikely that any one of the infection-induced compounds identified so
 far has a decisive role in the resistance response to P.
 syringae.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Production of reactive oxygen intermediates (ROI) and a form of
 programmed cell death called hypersensitive response (HR) are often
 associated with disease resistance of plants. We have previously shown
 that the Rac homolog of rice, OsRac1, is a regulator of ROI production
 and cell death in rice. Here we show that the constitutively active
 OsRac1 (i) causes HR-like responses and greatly reduces
 disease lesions against a virulent race of the rice blast fungus;
 (ii) causes resistance against a virulent race of
 bacterial blight; and (iii) causes enhanced production
 of a phytoalexin and alters expression of defense-related genes. The
 dominant-negative OsRac1 suppresses elicitor-induced ROI production in
 transgenic cell cultures, and in plants suppresses the HR induced by
 the avirulent race of the fungus. Taken together, our findings strongly
 suggest that OsRac1 has a general role in disease resistance of rice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In higher plants the production of starch is orchestrated by
 chloroplast-localized biosynthetic enzymes, namely starch synthases,
 ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, and starch branching and debranching
 enzymes. Diurnal regulation of these enzymes, as well as
 starch-degrading enzymes, influences both the levels and composition of
 starch, and is dependent in some instances upon phosphorylation-linked
 regulation. The phosphoserine/threonine-binding 14-3-3 proteins
 participate in environmentally responsive phosphorylation-related
 regulatory functions in plants, and as such are potentially involved in
 starch regulation. We report here that reduction of the ɛ subgroup of
 Arabidopsis 14-3-3 proteins by antisense technology
 resulted in a 2- to 4-fold increase in leaf starch accumulation.
 Dark-governed starch breakdown was unaffected in these “antisense
 plants,” indicating an unaltered starch-degradation pathway and
 suggesting a role for 14-3-3 proteins in regulation of starch
 synthesis. Absorption spectra and gelatinization properties indicate
 that the starch from the antisense plants has an altered branched
 glucan composition. Biochemical characterization of protease-treated
 starch granules from both Arabidopsis leaves and maize
 endosperm showed that 14-3-3 proteins are internal intrinsic granule
 proteins. These data suggest a direct role for 14-3-3 proteins in
 starch accumulation. The starch synthase III family is a possible
 target for 14-3-3 protein regulation because, uniquely among
 plastid-localized starch metabolic enzymes, all members of the family
 contain the conserved 14-3-3 protein
 phosphoserine/threonine-binding consensus motif. This
 possibility is strengthened by immunocapture using antibodies to DU1, a
 maize starch synthase III family member, and direct interaction with
 biotinylated 14-3-3 protein, both of which demonstrated an
 association between 14-3-3 proteins and DU1 or DU1-like proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
accelerated cell death 2 (acd2)
 mutants of Arabidopsis have spontaneous spreading cell
 death lesions and constitutive activation of defenses in the absence of
 pathogen infection. Lesion formation in acd2 plants can
 be triggered by the bacterial toxin coronatine through a
 light-dependent process. Coronatine-triggered and spontaneous lesion
 spreading in acd2 plants also requires protein
 translation, indicating that cell death occurs by an active process. We
 have cloned the ACD2 gene; its predicted product shows
 significant and extensive similarity to red chlorophyll catabolite
 reductase, which catalyzes one step in the breakdown of the porphyrin
 component of chlorophyll [Wüthrich, K. L., Bovet, L.,
 Hunziger, P. E., Donnison, I. S. & Hörtensteiner, S.
 (2000) Plant J. 21, 189–198]. Consistent with this,
 ACD2 protein contains a predicted chloroplast transit peptide, is
 processed in vivo, and purifies with the chloroplast
 fraction in subcellular fractionation experiments. At some stages of
 development, ACD2 protein also purifies with the mitochondrial
 fraction. We hypothesize that cell death in acd2 plants
 is caused by the accumulation of chlorophyll breakdown products. Such
 catabolites might be specific triggers for cell death or they might
 induce cellular damage through their ability to absorb light and emit
 electrons that generate free radicals. In response to infection by
 Pseudomonas syringae, transgenic plants expressing
 excess ACD2 protein show reduced disease symptoms but not reduced
 growth of bacteria. Thus, breakdown products of chlorophyll may act to
 amplify the symptoms of disease, including cell death and yellowing. We
 suggest that economically important plants overexpressing ACD2 might
 also show increased tolerance to pathogens and might be useful for
 increasing crop yields.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Planets of mass comparable to or larger than Jupiter's have been
 detected around over 50 stars, and for one such object a definitive
 test of its nature as a gas giant has been accomplished with data from
 an observed planetary transit. By virtue of their strong gravitational
 pull, giant planets define the dynamical and collisional environment
 within which terrestrial planets form. In our solar system, the
 position and timing of the formation of Jupiter determined the amount
 and source of the volatiles from which Earth's oceans and the source
 elements for life were derived. This paper reviews and brings together
 diverse observational and modeling results to infer the frequency and
 distribution of giant planets around solar-type stars and to assess
 implications for the habitability of terrestrial planets.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interstellar gas and dust constitute the primary material from
 which the solar system formed. Near the end of the hot early phase of
 star and planet formation, volatile, less refractory materials were
 transported into the inner solar system as comets and interplanetary
 dust particles. Once the inner planets had sufficiently cooled, late
 accretionary infall seeded them with complex organic compounds
 [Oró, J. (1961) Nature (London) 190,
 389–390; Delsemme, A. H. (1984) Origins Life 14,
 51–60; Anders, E. (1989) Nature (London) 342, 255–257;
 Chyba, C. F. & Sagan, C. (1992) Nature (London) 355,
 125–131]. Delivery of such extraterrestrial compounds may have
 contributed to the organic inventory necessary for the origin of life.
 Interstellar ices, the building blocks of comets, tie up a large
 fraction of the biogenic elements available in molecular clouds. In our
 efforts to understand their synthesis, chemical composition, and
 physical properties, we report here that a complex mixture of molecules
 is produced by UV photolysis of realistic, interstellar ice analogs,
 and that some of the components have properties relevant to the origin
 of life, including the ability to self-assemble into vesicular
 structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The adsorption of organic molecules onto the surfaces of inorganic
 solids has long been considered a process relevant to the origin of
 life. We have determined the equilibrium adsorption isotherms for the
 nucleic acid purine and pyrimidine bases dissolved in water on the
 surface of crystalline graphite. The markedly different adsorption
 behavior of the bases describes an elutropic series: guanine >
 adenine > hypoxanthine > thymine > cytosine >
 uracil. We propose that such differential properties were relevant to
 the prebiotic chemistry of the bases and may have influenced the
 composition of the primordial genetic architecture.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Laser-Raman imagery is a sensitive, noninvasive, and nondestructive
 technique that can be used to correlate directly chemical composition
 with optically discernable morphology in ancient carbonaceous fossils.
 By affording means to investigate the molecular makeup of specimens
 ranging from megascopic to microscopic, it holds promise for providing
 insight into aspects of organic metamorphism and biochemical evolution,
 and for clarifying the nature of ancient minute fossil-like objects of
 putative but uncertain biogenicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A time-dependent theory for the evolution of water on Mars is
 presented. Using this theory and invoking a large number of
 observational constraints, I argue that these constraints require that
 a large reservoir of water exists in the Martian crust at depths
 shallow enough to interact strongly with the atmosphere. The
 constraints include the abundance of atmospheric water vapor, escape
 fluxes of hydrogen and deuterium, D/H ratios in the atmosphere and in
 hydrous minerals found in one Martian meteorite, alteration of minerals
 in other meteorites, and fluvial features on the Martian surface. These
 results are consonant with visual evidence for recent groundwater
 seepage obtained by the Mars Global Surveyor satellite.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evidence on how much medical interventions work may change
 over time. It is important to determine what fluctuations in the
 treatment effect reported by randomized trials and their metaanalyses
 may be expected and whether extreme fluctuations signal future major
 changes. We applied recursive cumulative metaanalysis of randomized
 controlled trials to evaluate the relative change in the pooled
 treatment effect (odds ratio) over time for 60 interventions in two
 medical fields (pregnancy/perinatal medicine, n =
 45 interventions; myocardial infarction, n = 15
 interventions). We evaluated the scatter of relative changes for
 different numbers of total patients in previous trials. Outlier cases
 were noted with changes greater than 2.5 standard deviations of the
 expected. With 500 accumulated patients, the pooled odds ratio may
 change by 0.6- to 1.7-fold in the immediate future. When 2000 patients
 have already been randomized, the respective figures are between 0.74-
 and 1.35-fold for pregnancy/perinatal medicine and between 0.83- and
 1.21-fold for myocardial infarction studies. Extreme early fluctuations
 in the treatment effect were observed in three interventions (magnesium
 in myocardial infarction, calcium and antiplatelet agents for
 prevention of preeclampsia), where recent mega-trials have contradicted
 prior metaanalyses, as well as in four other examples where early large
 treatment effects were dissipated when more data appeared. Past
 experience may help quantify the uncertainty surrounding the treatment
 effects reported in early clinical trials and their metaanalyses. Early
 wide oscillations in the evolution of the treatment effect for specific
 interventions may sometimes signal further major changes in the future.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The theory of exponential dispersion models was applied to
 construct a stochastic model for heterogeneities in regional organ
 blood flow as inferred from the deposition of labeled microspheres. The
 requirements that the dispersion model be additive (or reproductive),
 scale invariant, and represent a compound Poisson distribution, implied
 that the relative dispersion (RD = standard
 deviation/mean) of blood flow should exhibit self-similar scaling in
 macroscopic tissue samples of masses m and
 mref such that RD(m) =
 RD(mref). (m/mref)1−D,
 where D was a constant. Under these circumstances this
 empirical relationship was a consequence of a compound Poisson-gamma
 distribution that represented macroscopic blood flow. The model also
 predicted that blood flow, at the microcirculatory level, should also
 be heterogeneous but obey a gamma distribution—a prediction supported
 by observation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Planets of mass comparable to or larger than Jupiter's have been
 detected around over 50 stars, and for one such object a definitive
 test of its nature as a gas giant has been accomplished with data from
 an observed planetary transit. By virtue of their strong gravitational
 pull, giant planets define the dynamical and collisional environment
 within which terrestrial planets form. In our solar system, the
 position and timing of the formation of Jupiter determined the amount
 and source of the volatiles from which Earth's oceans and the source
 elements for life were derived. This paper reviews and brings together
 diverse observational and modeling results to infer the frequency and
 distribution of giant planets around solar-type stars and to assess
 implications for the habitability of terrestrial planets.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interstellar gas and dust constitute the primary material from
 which the solar system formed. Near the end of the hot early phase of
 star and planet formation, volatile, less refractory materials were
 transported into the inner solar system as comets and interplanetary
 dust particles. Once the inner planets had sufficiently cooled, late
 accretionary infall seeded them with complex organic compounds
 [Oró, J. (1961) Nature (London) 190,
 389–390; Delsemme, A. H. (1984) Origins Life 14,
 51–60; Anders, E. (1989) Nature (London) 342, 255–257;
 Chyba, C. F. & Sagan, C. (1992) Nature (London) 355,
 125–131]. Delivery of such extraterrestrial compounds may have
 contributed to the organic inventory necessary for the origin of life.
 Interstellar ices, the building blocks of comets, tie up a large
 fraction of the biogenic elements available in molecular clouds. In our
 efforts to understand their synthesis, chemical composition, and
 physical properties, we report here that a complex mixture of molecules
 is produced by UV photolysis of realistic, interstellar ice analogs,
 and that some of the components have properties relevant to the origin
 of life, including the ability to self-assemble into vesicular
 structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The adsorption of organic molecules onto the surfaces of inorganic
 solids has long been considered a process relevant to the origin of
 life. We have determined the equilibrium adsorption isotherms for the
 nucleic acid purine and pyrimidine bases dissolved in water on the
 surface of crystalline graphite. The markedly different adsorption
 behavior of the bases describes an elutropic series: guanine >
 adenine > hypoxanthine > thymine > cytosine >
 uracil. We propose that such differential properties were relevant to
 the prebiotic chemistry of the bases and may have influenced the
 composition of the primordial genetic architecture.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although shape-memory metal alloys have wide use in medicine
 and other areas, improved properties, particularly easy shaping, high
 shape stability, and adjustable transition temperature, are realizable
 only by polymer systems. In this paper, a polymer system of
 shape-memory polymer networks based on oligo(ɛ-caprolactone)
 dimethacrylate as crosslinker and n-butyl acrylate as
 comonomer was introduced. The influence of two structural parameters,
 the molecular weight of oligo(ɛ-caprolactone) dimethacrylate and the
 weight content of n-butyl acrylate, on macroscopic
 properties of polymer networks such as thermal and mechanical
 properties has been investigated. Tensile tests above and below melting
 temperature showed a decrease in the elastic modulus with increasing
 comonomer weight content. The crystallization behavior of the new
 materials has been investigated, and key parameters for the programming
 procedure of the temporary shape have been evaluated. Shape-memory
 properties have been quantified by thermocyclic experiments. All
 samples reached uniform deformation properties with recovery rates
 above 99% after 3 cycles. Whereas strain recovery increased with
 increasing n-butyl acrylate content, strain fixity
 decreased, reflecting the decreasing degree of crystallinity of the
 material.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This paper draws attention to selected experiments on
 enzyme-catalyzed reactions that show convex Arrhenius plots, which are
 very rare, and points out that Tolman's interpretation of the
 activation energy places a fundamental model-independent constraint on
 any detailed explanation of these reactions. The analysis presented
 here shows that in such systems, the rate coefficient as a function of
 energy is not just increasing more slowly than expected, it is actually
 decreasing. This interpretation of the data provides a constraint on
 proposed microscopic models, i.e., it requires that any successful
 model of a reaction with a convex Arrhenius plot should be consistent
 with the microcanonical rate coefficient being a decreasing function of
 energy. The implications and limitations of this analysis to
 interpreting enzyme mechanisms are discussed. This model-independent
 conclusion has broad applicability to all fields of kinetics, and we
 also draw attention to an analogy with diffusion in metastable fluids
 and glasses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report on the design and characterization of a class of
 biomolecular interfaces based on derivatized
 poly(l-lysine)-grafted poly(ethylene glycol) copolymers
 adsorbed on negatively charged surfaces. As a model system, we
 synthesized biotin-derivatized poly(l-lysine)-grafted
 poly(ethylene glycol) copolymers, PLL-g-[(PEGm)(1−x)
 (PEG-biotin)x], where x varies
 from 0 to 1. Monolayers were produced on titanium dioxide substrates
 and characterized by x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The specific
 biorecognition properties of these biotinylated surfaces were
 investigated with the use of radiolabeled streptavidin alone and within
 complex protein mixtures. The PLL-g-PEG-biotin monolayers specifically
 capture streptavidin, even from a complex protein mixture, while still
 preventing nonspecific adsorption of other proteins. This streptavidin
 layer can subsequently capture biotinylated proteins. Finally,
 with the use of microfluidic networks and protein arraying, we
 demonstrate the potential of this class of biomolecular interfaces for
 applications based on protein patterning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Laser-Raman imagery is a sensitive, noninvasive, and nondestructive
 technique that can be used to correlate directly chemical composition
 with optically discernable morphology in ancient carbonaceous fossils.
 By affording means to investigate the molecular makeup of specimens
 ranging from megascopic to microscopic, it holds promise for providing
 insight into aspects of organic metamorphism and biochemical evolution,
 and for clarifying the nature of ancient minute fossil-like objects of
 putative but uncertain biogenicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A time-dependent theory for the evolution of water on Mars is
 presented. Using this theory and invoking a large number of
 observational constraints, I argue that these constraints require that
 a large reservoir of water exists in the Martian crust at depths
 shallow enough to interact strongly with the atmosphere. The
 constraints include the abundance of atmospheric water vapor, escape
 fluxes of hydrogen and deuterium, D/H ratios in the atmosphere and in
 hydrous minerals found in one Martian meteorite, alteration of minerals
 in other meteorites, and fluvial features on the Martian surface. These
 results are consonant with visual evidence for recent groundwater
 seepage obtained by the Mars Global Surveyor satellite.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Unlinked autosomal microsatellites in six Jewish and two non-Jewish
 populations were genotyped, and the relationships among these
 populations were explored. Based on considerations of clustering,
 pairwise population differentiation, and genetic distance, we found
 that the Libyan Jewish group retains genetic signatures distinguishable
 from those of the other populations, in agreement with some historical
 records on the relative isolation of this community. Our methods also
 identified evidence of some similarity between Ethiopian and Yemenite
 Jews, reflecting possible migration in the Red Sea region. We suggest
 that high-resolution statistical methods that use individual multilocus
 genotypes may make it practical to distinguish related populations of
 extremely recent common ancestry.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have sequenced a highly polymorphic subterminal noncoding region
 from human chromosome 16p13.3, flanking the 5′ end of the hypervariable
 minisatellite MS205, in 100 chromosomes sampled from different African
 and Euroasiatic populations. Coalescence analysis indicates that the
 time to the most recent common ancestor (approximately 1 million years)
 predates the appearance of anatomically modern human forms. The root of
 the network describing this variability lies in Africa. African
 populations show a greater level of diversity and deeper branches. Most
 Euroasiatic variability seems to have been generated after a recent
 out-of-Africa range expansion. A history of population growth is the
 most likely scenario for the Euroasiatic populations. This pattern of
 nuclear variability can be reconciled with inferences based on
 mitochondrial DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This paper draws attention to selected experiments on
 enzyme-catalyzed reactions that show convex Arrhenius plots, which are
 very rare, and points out that Tolman's interpretation of the
 activation energy places a fundamental model-independent constraint on
 any detailed explanation of these reactions. The analysis presented
 here shows that in such systems, the rate coefficient as a function of
 energy is not just increasing more slowly than expected, it is actually
 decreasing. This interpretation of the data provides a constraint on
 proposed microscopic models, i.e., it requires that any successful
 model of a reaction with a convex Arrhenius plot should be consistent
 with the microcanonical rate coefficient being a decreasing function of
 energy. The implications and limitations of this analysis to
 interpreting enzyme mechanisms are discussed. This model-independent
 conclusion has broad applicability to all fields of kinetics, and we
 also draw attention to an analogy with diffusion in metastable fluids
 and glasses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Design of helical super secondary structural motifs is expected to
 provide important scaffolds to incorporate functional sites, thus
 allowing the engineering of novel miniproteins with function. An
 α,β-dehydrophenylalanine containing 21-residue apolar peptide was
 designed to mimic the helical hairpin motif by using a simple
 geometrical design strategy. The synthetic peptide folds into the
 desired structure as assessed crystallographically at 1.0-Å
 resolution. The two helices of the helical-hairpin motif, connected by
 a flexible (Gly)4 linker, are docked to each other by the
 concerted influence of weak interactions. The folding of the peptide
 without binary patterning of amino acids, disulfide bonds, or metal
 ions is a remarkable observation. The results demonstrate that
 preferred interactions among the hydrophobic residues selectively
 discriminate their putative partners in space, leading to the unique
 folding of the peptide, also a hallmark of the unique folding of
 hydrophobic core in globular proteins. We demonstrate here the
 engineering of molecules by using weak interactions pointing to their
 possible further exploitation in the de novo design of
 protein super secondary structural elements.
DOC DONE!Abstract
SopB is an inositol phosphate phosphatase that is a virulence
 factor in Salmonella species. We have overexpressed SopB
 cDNA in a tetracycline-dependent system in human embryonic 293 cells,
 and used this model system to directly analyze the role of SopB in
 altering inositol metabolite levels in vivo. Addition of
 tetracycline to these cells resulted in the rapid induction of SopB
 expression, which was coincident with perturbations in the cellular
 levels of multiple soluble inositol phosphates. All of the changes
 induced by SopB expression were reversed within 24 h on removal of
 tetracycline from media. Specifically, cellular inositol
 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate (InsP5) and inositol
 hexakisphosphate (InsP6) levels were depleted within 4 to
 6 h after inducing SopB expression. A transient rise in cellular
 inositol 1,4,5,6-tetrakisphosphate was also observed and was
 accompanied by increased chloride channel activity. This indicates that
 SopB alone is sufficient for changes in chloride channel function in
 cells infected with Salmonella organisms. Depletion of
 inositol phosphates, including InsP5 and InsP6
 metabolites, was coincident with the accumulation of polyadenylated RNA
 in the nucleus. This suggested that a defect in nuclear export had
 occurred. Moreover, the penetrance of the export defect required
 localization of SopB to the nucleus. These results provide evidence
 that inositol phosphate productions may be required for efficient mRNA
 export in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The forces stabilizing the three-dimensional structures of membrane
 proteins are currently not well understood. Previously, it was shown
 that a single Asn side chain in a transmembrane segment can mediate the
 dimerization and trimerization of a variety of hydrophobic helices.
 Here, we examine the tendencies of a representative set of amino acids
 (Asn, Gln, Asp, Glu, Lys, Ala, Val, Leu, Ser, Thr) to direct the
 oligomerization of a model transmembrane helix. The model peptide is
 entirely hydrophobic throughout a 20-residue segment and contains a
 single central site for the introduction of various amino acid
 “guests.” Analytical ultracentrifugation and gel electrophoresis
 were used to determine the stoichiometry and free energy of association
 of the entire set of peptides within micelles. Variants with two polar
 atoms at the guest site—Asn, Gln, Asp, and Glu—formed stable trimers,
 whereas residues with one or fewer polar atoms showed a much weaker
 tendency to associate. The data are examined in light of the
 frequencies of occurrence of various amino acid side chains in membrane
 proteins and provide insight into the role of polar interactions in
 directing transmembrane helix association. These data also suggest an
 approach to the design of variants of natural single-span transmembrane
 proteins with various potentials to associate in the bilayer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) is a DNA-containing pararetrovirus
 replicating by means of reverse transcription of a terminally redundant
 pregenomic 35S RNA that is also used as a polycistronic mRNA. The
 leader of 35S RNA is long, highly structured, and contains multiple
 short ORFs (sORFs), which strongly interfere with the ribosome scanning
 process. Translation of this RNA is initiated by a ribosome shunt
 mechanism, in which ribosomes translate the most 5′-proximal short ORF
 (sORF A), then skip a large region of the leader containing a putative
 RNA encapsidation signal and reinitiate translation at the first long
 viral ORF. Here, we demonstrate that the efficiency of the sORF
 A-mediated ribosome shunt is an important determinant of viral
 infectivity. Point mutations in sORF A, which reduced the basal level
 of shunt-dependent expression and the degree of shunt enhancement by a
 CaMV-encoded translation transactivator (TAV), consequently reduced
 infectivity of the virus in turnip plants. First- or second-site
 reversions appeared in the viral progeny. The second-site reversions
 restored shuntdependent expression to an extent correlating with
 their relative abundance in the progeny. Mutations that abolished both
 the basal and TAV-activated components of shunting proved to be lethal.
 Finally, by using an artificial stem structure that blocks scanning, we
 obtained direct evidence that ribosome shunt operates during CaMV
 infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bacterial DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RNAP) has subunit
 composition β′βαIαIIω. The role of
 ω has been unclear. We show that ω is homologous in sequence and
 structure to RPB6, an essential subunit shared in eukaryotic RNAP I,
 II, and III. In Escherichia coli, overproduction of ω
 suppresses the assembly defect caused by substitution of residue 1362
 of the largest subunit of RNAP, β′. In yeast, overproduction of RPB6
 suppresses the assembly defect caused by the equivalent substitution in
 the largest subunit of RNAP II, RPB1. High-resolution structural
 analysis of the ω–β′ interface in bacterial RNAP, and comparison
 with the RPB6–RPB1 interface in yeast RNAP II, confirms the structural
 relationship and suggests a “latching” mechanism for the role of
 ω and RPB6 in promoting RNAP assembly.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The F1Fo-type ATP synthase is the smallest
 motor enzyme known. Previous studies had established that the central
 γ and ɛ subunits of the F1 part rotate relative to a
 stator of α3β3 and δ subunits during
 catalysis. We now show that the ring of c subunits in the
 Fo part moves along with the γ and ɛ subunits. This was
 demonstrated by linking the three rotor subunits with disulfide bridges
 between cysteine residues introduced genetically at the interfaces
 between the γ, ɛ, and c subunits. Essentially complete
 cross-linking of the γ, ɛ, and c subunits was achieved by using
 CuCl2 to induce oxidation. This fixing of the three
 subunits together had no significant effect on ATP hydrolysis, proton
 translocation, or ATP synthesis, and each of these functions retained
 inhibitor sensitivity. These results unequivocally place the c subunit
 oligomer in the rotor part of this molecular machine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To establish an experimental system to directly observe molecular
 evolution, a DNA fragment that confers ampicillin resistance on
 Escherichia coli was cloned from an archaeal genomic
 DNA. The activity of this clone was enhanced by 50 rounds of directed
 evolution by using DNA shuffling. Analysis of the evolved DNA fragments
 shows that two genetic regions have coevolved: One region, which has no
 obvious ORF, is essential for the activity, whereas the other, which
 appears to encode a protein, is not essential but enhances the activity
 of the former region. Analysis of the evolutionary intermediates shows
 that negative mutations are effectively removed while beneficial
 mutations accumulate and illustrates how a protein has evolved over the
 course of the evolution experiments. Although the mechanism of the
 activity remains unclear, the evolved DNA fragments also confer
 resistance to other drugs that inhibit bacterial cell-wall synthesis.
 The present system would serve as an experimental model to study
 evolutionary dynamics in the laboratory and provide the concept of
 screening natural libraries to obtain starting materials for directed
 evolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Escherichia coli modulates its porin expression
 through a histidine kinase, EnvZ, and its cognate response regulator,
 OmpR. EnvZ is a bifunctional enzyme that possesses both OmpR kinase and
 phosphorylated OmpR (OmpR-P) phosphatase activities and thus controls
 the cellular level of OmpR-P. In an in vitro-assay
 system, the addition of OmpR to the reaction mixture consisting of the
 cytoplasmic domain of EnvZ (EnvZc) and ATP produces a barely detectable
 amount of OmpR-P because of the dual activities of EnvZ. Here we report
 that DNA fragments containing the upstream promoter regions of the
 porin genes (ompF and ompC) can shift the
 equilibrium between OmpR and OmpR-P dramatically toward OmpR-P. Among
 the four reactions occurring in the mixture, only the EnvZ phosphatase
 activity was inhibited severely by the specific DNA, in contrast to the
 previous report by Kenney and her associates that DNA stimulates OmpR
 phosphorylation by EnvZ [Ames, S. K., Frankema, N. & Kenney,
 L. J. (1999) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96,
 11792–11797]. The autophosphorylation of EnvZc and the
 phosphotransfer from phosphorylated EnvZc to OmpR were not affected by
 DNA, whereas the autodephosphorylation of OmpR-P was inhibited
 slightly. We propose that the apparent inhibitory effect of DNA on the
 EnvZ phosphatase function is caused by sequestrating OmpR-P from the
 reaction as a result of OmpR-P binding to DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Point mutations in either of the two nucleotide-binding domains
 (NBD) of Hsp104 (NBD1 and NBD2) eliminate its thermotolerance function
 in vivo. In vitro, NBD1 mutations
 virtually eliminate ATP hydrolysis with little effect on
 hexamerization; analogous NBD2 mutations reduce ATPase activity and
 severely impair hexamerization. We report that high protein
 concentrations overcome the assembly defects of NBD2 mutants and
 increase ATP hydrolysis severalfold, changing
 Vmax with little effect on
 Km. In a complementary fashion, the
 detergent 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate
 inhibits hexamerization of wild-type (WT) Hsp104, lowering
 Vmax with little effect on
 Km. ATP hydrolysis exhibits a Hill
 coefficient between 1.5 and 2, indicating that it is influenced by
 cooperative subunit interactions. To further analyze the effects of
 subunit interactions on Hsp104, we assessed the effects of mutant
 Hsp104 proteins on WT Hsp104 activities. An NBD1 mutant that
 hexamerizes but does not hydrolyze ATP reduces the ATPase activity of
 WT Hsp104 in vitro. In vivo, this mutant
 is not toxic but specifically inhibits the thermotolerance function of
 WT Hsp104. Thus, interactions between subunits influence the ATPase
 activity of Hsp104, play a vital role in its biological functions, and
 provide a mechanism for conditionally inactivating Hsp104 function
 in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A yeast two-hybrid system was used to analyze interactions among
 the protein subunits of human nuclear RNase P themselves and with other
 interacting partners encoded in a HeLa cell cDNA library. Subunits
 hpop1, Rpp21, Rpp29, Rpp30, Rpp38, and Rpp40 are involved in extensive,
 but weak, protein–protein interactions in the holoenzyme complex.
 Rpp14, Rpp20, and Rpp30 were found to have strong interactions with
 proteins encoded in the cDNA library. The small heat shock protein 27,
 which interacts with Rpp20 in the two-hybrid assay, binds to Rpp20
 during affinity chromatography and can be found to be associated with,
 and enhances the activity of, highly purified RNase P. RNase P activity
 in HeLa cell nuclei also increases under the stress of heat shock.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Self-protection in the mitomycin C (MC)-producing microorganism
 Streptomyces lavendulae includes MRD, a protein that
 binds MC in the presence of NADH and functions as a component of a
 unique drug binding-export system. Characterization of MRD revealed
 that it reductively transforms MC into
 1,2-cis-1-hydroxy-2,7-diaminomitosene, a compound that
 is produced in the reductive MC activation cascade. However, the
 reductive reaction catalyzed by native MRD is slow, and both MC and the
 reduced product are bound to MRD for a relatively prolonged period.
 Gene shuffling experiments generated a mutant protein
 (MRDE55G) that conferred a 2-fold increase in MC resistance
 when expressed in Escherichia coli. Purified
 MRDE55G reduces MC twice as fast as native MRD, generating
 three compounds that are identical to those produced in the reductive
 activation of MC. Detailed amino acid sequence analysis revealed that
 the region around E55 in MRD strongly resembles the second active site
 of prokaryotic catalase-peroxidases. However, native MRD has an
 aspartic acid (D52) and a glutamic acid (E55) residue at the positions
 corresponding to the catalytic histidine and a nearby glycine residue
 in the catalase-peroxidases. Mutational analysis demonstrated that
 MRDD52H and MRDD52H/E55G conferred only
 marginal resistance to MC in E. coli. These findings
 suggest that MRD has descended from a previously unidentified quinone
 reductase, and mutations at the active site of MRD have greatly
 attenuated its catalytic activity while preserving substrate-binding
 capability. This presumed evolutionary process might have switched MRD
 from a potential drug-activating enzyme into the drug-binding component
 of the MC export system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A gene cluster encoding five enzymes of the mevalonate pathway had
 been cloned from Streptomyces sp. strain CL190. This
 gene cluster contained an additional ORF, orfD, encoding
 an unknown protein that was detected in some archaebacteria and some
 Gram-positive bacteria including Staphylococcus aureus.
 The recombinant product of orfD was purified as a
 soluble protein and characterized. The molecular mass of the enzyme was
 estimated to be 37 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and
 155 kDa by gel filtration chromatography, suggesting that the enzyme is
 most likely to be a tetramer. The purified enzyme contained flavin
 mononucleotide (FMN) with the amount per tetramer being 1.4 to 1.6
 mol/mol. The enzyme catalyzed the isomerization of isopentenyl
 diphosphate (IPP) to produce dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP) in the
 presence of both FMN and NADPH. The Escherichia coli
 plasmid expressing orfD could complement the disrupted
 IPP isomerase gene in E. coli. These results indicate
 that orfD encodes an unusual IPP isomerase showing no
 sequence similarity to those of IPP isomerases identified to date.
 Based on the difference in enzymatic properties, we classify the IPP
 isomerases into two types: Type 2 for FMN- and NAD(P)H-dependent
 enzymes, and type 1 for the others. In view of the critical role of
 this isomerase in S. aureus and of the different
 enzymatic properties of mammalian (type 1) and S. aureus
 (type 2) isomerases, this unusual enzyme is considered to be a suitable
 molecular target for the screening of antibacterial drugs specific to
 S. aureus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have established a model system using the caspase-2
 pre-mRNA and initiated a study on the role of alternative splicing in
 regulation of programmed cell death. A caspase-2 minigene construct has
 been made that can be alternatively spliced in transfected cells and in
 nuclear extracts. Using this system, we have identified a 100-nt region
 in downstream intron 9 that inhibits the inclusion of the 61-bp
 alternative exon. This element (In100) can facilitate exon skipping in
 the context of competing 3′ or 5′ splice sites, but not in
 single-intron splicing units. The In100 element is also active in
 certain heterologous pre-mRNAs, although in a highly context-dependent
 manner. Interestingly, we found that In100 contains a sequence that
 highly resembles a bona fide 3′ splice site. We provide evidence that
 this sequence acts as a “decoy” acceptor site that engages in U2
 snRNP-dependent but nonproductive splicing complexes with the 5′ splice
 site of exon 9, hence conferring competitive advantage to the
 exon-skipping splicing event (E8-E10). These results reveal a mechanism
 of action for a negative intronic regulatory element and uncover a role
 for U2 snRNP in the regulation of alternative splicing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A convenient and precise mass spectrometric method for measurement
 of the deamidation rates of glutaminyl and asparaginyl residues in
 peptides and proteins has been developed; the rates of deamidation of
 306 asparaginyl sequences in model peptides at pH 7.4, 37.0°C, 0.15 M
 Tris⋅HCl buffer have been determined; a library of 913
 amide-containing peptides for use by other investigators in similar
 studies has been established; and, by means of simultaneous deamidation
 rate measurements of rabbit muscle aldolase and appropriate model
 peptides in the same solutions, the use of this method for quantitative
 measurement of the relative effects of primary, secondary, tertiary,
 and quaternary protein structure on deamidation rates has been
 demonstrated. The measured rates are discussed with respect to the
 hypothesis that glutaminyl and asparaginyl residues serve, through
 deamidation, as molecular timers of biological events.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have studied the principles that govern the formation and
 dissociation of an adhesive bond between a cell moving in shear flow
 and a substrate and tested different theories of how force affects bond
 dissociation. Viscosity relates the kinematics of fluid movement (shear
 rate, units of time−1) to shear stress (units of
 force/area, the product of shear rate and viscosity). At different
 medium viscosities, the formation of receptor–ligand bonds between a
 cell in the flowstream and P-selectin on the vessel wall showed a
 similar efficiency as a function of shear rate but not of shear stress.
 Therefore, bond formation was a function of shear rate and hence of the
 kinematics of receptor and ligand movement. By contrast, the kinetics
 of bond dissociation was a function of shear stress and hence of force
 on the bond. The different requirements for bond formation and
 dissociation allowed dissociation kinetics to be measured at higher
 forces on the bond by increasing medium viscosity. Data over an
 extended range of forces on the bond therefore could be collected that
 enabled five different proposed equations, relating force to bond
 dissociation, to be compared for fit to experimental data. The
 relationship proposed by Bell [Bell, G. I. (1978)
 Science 200, 618–627] fit the data significantly the
 best and also predicted an off-rate in the absence of force that best
 matched an independent measurement [Mehta, P., Cummings, R. D. &
 McEver, R. P. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273,
 32506–32513].
DOC DONE!Abstract
Changes in protein mobility accompany changes in conformation
 during the trans-activation of enzymes; however, few studies exist that
 validate or characterize this behavior. In this study, amide
 hydrogen/deuterium exchange/mass spectrometry was used to probe the
 conformational flexibility of extracellular signal-regulated protein
 kinase-2 before and after activation by phosphorylation. The exchange
 data indicated that extracellular regulated protein kinase-2 activation
 caused altered backbone flexibility in addition to the conformational
 changes previously established by x-ray crystallography. The changes in
 flexibility occurred in regions involved in substrate binding and
 turnover, suggesting their importance in enzyme regulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The first steps in the photocycles of the archaeal photoreceptor
 proteins sensory rhodopsin (SR) I and II from Halobacterium
 salinarum and SRII from Natronobacterium
 pharaonis have been studied by ultrafast pump/probe
 spectroscopy and steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy. The data for
 both species of the blue-light receptor SRII suggests that their
 primary reactions are nearly analogous with a fast decay of the excited
 electronic state in 300–400 fs and a transition between two
 red-shifted product states in 4–5 ps. Thus SRII behaves similarly to
 bacteriorhodopsin. In contrast for SRI at pH 6.0,
 which absorbs in the orange part of the spectrum, a strongly increased
 fluorescence quantum yield and a drastically slower and biexponential
 decay of the excited electronic state occurring on the picosecond time
 scale (5 ps and 33 ps) is observed. The results suggest that the
 primary reactions are controlled by the charge distribution in the
 vicinity of the Schiff base and demonstrate that there is no direct
 connection between absorption properties and reaction dynamics for the
 retinal protein family.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Juxtaposition kinetics between specific sites in supercoiled DNA is
 investigated at close to physiological ionic conditions by Brownian
 dynamics simulations. At such conditions, supercoiled DNA is
 interwound, and the probability of spatial site juxtaposition is much
 higher than in relaxed DNA. We find, however, that supercoiling does
 not correspondingly increase the rate of juxtaposition at these
 physiological conditions. An explanation to this unexpected finding
 emerges on analysis of the juxtaposition dynamics. We note that
 although a particular site i1 in supercoiled
 DNA is often in close proximity (juxtaposed) to another site
 i2, the change of
 i2 occurs very slowly and depends largely on
 internal slithering of opposite segments of the DNA superhelix. Such
 slithering results in long correlations between successive values of
 i2; these correlations increase the average
 time of juxtaposition between two DNA sites. Random collisions between
 sites located on different superhelix branches—although increasing in
 importance with DNA size—contribute less substantially to site
 juxtaposition at high salt than slithering for DNA up to 6 kb in
 length.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Smad proteins are key intracellular signaling effectors for the
 transforming growth factor-β superfamily of peptide growth factors.
 Following receptor-induced activation, Smads move into the nucleus to
 activate transcription of a select set of target genes. The activity of
 Smad proteins must be tightly regulated to exert the biological effects
 of different ligands in a timely manner. Here, we report the
 identification of Smurf2, a new member of the Hect family of E3
 ubiquitin ligases. Smurf2 selectively interacts with receptor-regulated
 Smads and preferentially targets Smad1 for ubiquitination and
 proteasome-mediated degradation. At higher expression levels, Smurf2
 also decreases the protein levels of Smad2, but not Smad3. In
 Xenopus embryos, ectopic Smurf2 expression specifically
 inhibits Smad1 responses and thereby affects embryonic patterning by
 bone morphogenetic protein signals. These findings suggest that Smurf2
 may regulate the competence of a cell to respond to transforming growth
 factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein signaling through a distinct
 degradation pathway that is similar to, yet independent of, Smurf1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Placement of the division site at midcell in Escherichia
 coli requires the MinE protein. MinE acts by imparting
 topological specificity to the MinCD division inhibitor, preventing the
 inhibitor from acting at the midcell site while permitting it to block
 division at other unwanted sites along the length of the cell. It was
 previously shown that MinE assembled into a ring structure that
 appeared to be localized near midcell, apparently explaining the
 ability of MinE to specifically counteract MinCD at midcell. We report
 here that the MinE ring is not fixed in position near midcell but is a
 dynamic structure that undergoes a repetitive cycle of movement first
 to one cell pole and then to the opposite pole. Taken together with
 studies of the dynamic behavior of the MinD protein, the results
 suggest that the topological specificity of division site placement may
 not involve a localized action of MinE to counteract the MinCD division
 inhibitor at midcell but rather the ability of MinE to move the
 division inhibitor away from midcell and to the cell poles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations causing truncations of the cytoplasmic domain of the
 human erythropoietin receptor (EPOR) result in a dominantly inherited
 disorder—primary familial congenital polycythemia. This disorder is
 characterized by increased numbers of erythrocytes (polycythemia) and
 by in vitro hypersensitivity of erythroid precursors to
 erythropoietin. The consequences of EPOR truncation in nonerythroid
 tissues are unknown. We replaced the murine EPOR gene with a wild-type
 human EPOR gene and a mutant human EPOR gene that we initially
 identified in a patient with polycythemia. This mutation leads to an
 EPOR truncated after the first tyrosine residue of the intracellular
 domain. Mice heterozygous for this mutant allele and a wild-type human
 EPOR allele mimicked the human disorder. Interestingly, mice that were
 homozygous for the mutant human allele were severely polycythemic but
 viable. Our results provide a model for functional studies of
 EPOR-triggered signaling pathways in erythropoiesis. These animals can
 now be used to investigate the molecular pathophysiology of this
 gain-of-function EPOR mutation in erythroid tissue and in those
 nonerythroid tissues that express EPOR.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Loss of growth inhibitory responses to the cytokine transforming
 growth factor β (TGF-β) in cancer cells may result from mutational
 inactivation of TGF-β receptors or their signal transducers, the Smad
 transcription factors. In breast cancer, however, loss of TGF-β
 growth inhibition often occurs without a loss of these signaling
 components. A genome-wide analysis of rapid TGF-β gene responses in
 MCF-10A human mammary epithelial cells and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer
 cells shows that c-myc repression, a response that is
 key to the TGF-β program of cell cycle arrest, is selectively lost in
 the cancer cell line. Transformation of MCF-10A cells with
 c-Ha-ras and c-erbB2 oncogenes also led
 to a selective loss of c-myc repression and cell cycle
 arrest response. TGF-β stimulation of epithelial cells rapidly
 induces the formation of a Smad complex that specifically recognizes a
 TGF-β inhibitory element in the c-myc promoter.
 Formation of this complex is deficient in the oncogenically transformed
 breast cells. These results suggest that a Smad complex that
 specifically mediates c-myc repression is a target of
 oncogenic signals in breast cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome database
 contains two ORFs with homology to aquaporins, AQY1 and
 AQY2. Aqy1p has been shown to be a functional aquaporin
 in some strains, such as Σ1278b. AQY2 is disrupted by
 a stop codon in most strains; however, Σ1278b has an intact ORF.
 Because Σ1278b Aqy2p has an intracellular localization in
 Xenopus oocytes and in yeast, other strains of yeast
 were examined. Aqy2p from Saccharomyces chevalieri has a
 single amino acid in the third transmembrane domain (Ser-141) that
 differs from Σ1278b Aqy2p (Pro-141). S. chevalieri
 Aqy2p is a functional water channel in oocytes and traffics to the
 plasma membrane of yeast. The Σ1278b parental strain, the
 aqy1-aqy2 double null yeast, and null
 yeast expressing S. chevalieri Aqy2p were examined under
 various conditions. Comparison of these strains revealed that the
 aquaporin null cells were more aggregated and their surface was more
 hydrophobic. As a result, the aquaporin null cells were more flocculent
 and more efficient at haploid invasive growth. Despite its primary
 intracellular localization, Σ1278b Aqy2p plays a role in yeast
 similar to Aqy1p and S. chevalieri Aqy2p. In addition,
 Aqy1p and Aqy2p can affect cell surface properties and may provide an
 advantage by dispersing the cells during starvation or during sexual
 reproduction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Apoptosis is controlled by a complex interplay between
 regulatory proteins. Previous work has shown that
 Xenopus embryos remove damaged cells by
 apoptosis when irradiated before, but not after, the
 midblastula transition (MBT). Here we demonstrate that Akt/protein
 kinase B is activated and mediates an antiapoptotic signal only
 in embryos irradiated after the MBT. In addition, an increase in
 xBcl-2/xBax oligomerization and a decrease in xBax homodimerization
 promote a protective effect against apoptosis only after the
 MBT. The post-MBT survival mechanism arrests cells in G1
 phase by increasing expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor
 p27Xic1. p27Xic1 associates with cyclin
 D/Cdk4 and cyclin A/Cdk2 complexes to cause G1/S
 arrest, perhaps allowing more time for DNA repair. Taken together, the
 results define the DNA damage response as an element of the MBT and
 indicate that multiple mechanisms prevent apoptosis after the
 MBT.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several recent findings have indicated that the promyelocytic
 leukemia gene product (PML) oncogenic domains (PODs) are involved in
 proteasome-mediated degradation of ubiquitinated proteins. We wanted to
 examine the intracellular distribution of PML protein in the presence
 of a proteasome inhibitor. We used high-resolution microscopy to study
 the distribution of PML protein and other POD-associated proteins along
 with the proteasomes themselves under normal conditions and in cells
 treated with the proteasome inhibitor, MG132. Inhibition of the
 proteasomes in MCF-7, HeLa, and IB-4 cell lines resulted in a radical
 redistribution of the POD-associated proteins PML, Sp100, and SUMO-1.
 After 6–10 h of MG132 treatment, PML, Sp100, and SUMO-1 were no longer
 detectable in the PODs and accumulated mainly in the nucleolus.
 Moreover, MG132 treatment changed the cellular distribution of the
 proteasomes. Interestingly, this included the accumulation in
 euchromatin areas of the nucleus and within the nucleoli. Several
 non-POD-associated proteins did not change their cellular distribution
 under the same conditions. The accumulation of POD-associated proteins
 and proteasomes in the nucleoli of MG132-treated cells indicates that
 these proteins may target the nucleoli under normal conditions and that
 the nucleolus may have a function in the regulation of proteasomal
 protein degradation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The T2 family of nonspecific endoribonucleases (EC
 3.1.27.1) is a widespread family of RNases found in every organism
 examined thus far. Most T2 enzymes are secretory RNases and
 therefore are found extracellularly or in compartments of the
 endomembrane system that would minimize their contact with cellular
 RNA. Although the biological functions of various T2 RNases
 have been postulated on the basis of enzyme location or gene expression
 patterns, the cellular roles of these enzymes are generally unknown. In
 the present work, we characterized Rny1, the only T2 RNase
 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rny1 was found to be an
 active, secreted RNase whose gene expression is controlled by heat
 shock and osmotic stress. Inactivation of RNY1 leads to
 unusually large cells that are temperature-sensitive for growth. These
 phenotypes can be complemented not only by RNY1 but also
 by both structurally related and unrelated secretory RNases.
 Additionally, the complementation depends on RNase activity. When
 coupled with a recent report on the effect of specific RNAs on membrane
 permeability [Khvorova, A., Kwak, Y-G., Tamkun, M., Majerfeld, I. &
 Yarus, M. (1999) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96,
 10649–10654], our work suggests an unexpected role for Rny1 and
 possibly other secretory RNases. These enzymes may regulate membrane
 permeability or stability, a hypothesis that could present an
 alternative perspective for understanding their functions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endostatin, a fragment of collagen XVIII, is a potent antagonist of
 angiogenesis and inhibitor of tumor growth in mouse models. At present,
 the mechanism of action of endostatin is unknown. We show here that
 recombinantly produced human endostatin interacts with
 α5- and αv-integrins on the surface of
 human endothelial cells. We further demonstrate that the
 endostatin–integrin interaction is of functional significance
 in vitro, as we found that immobilized endostatin
 supports endothelial cell survival and migration in an
 integrin-dependent manner. Soluble endostatin in turn inhibits
 integrin-dependent endothelial cell functions, such as cell migration.
 Taken together, these results implicate integrins as potential targets
 for endostatin function and support the importance of integrins in
 endothelial cell biology and angiogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The REF family of evolutionarily conserved heterogeneous
 ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP)-like proteins consists of one central
 RNP-type RNA binding domain flanked by Arg–Gly-rich regions of
 variable length. Members of this protein family bind directly to RNA
 and the mRNA export factor TAP/Mex67p, and it has been suggested that
 they facilitate the recruitment of TAP/Mex67p to cellular mRNPs. We
 show that the variable regions are necessary for binding of REFs to RNA
 and to TAP. Antibodies specific to REFs prevent their interaction with
 RNA in vitro. After microinjection into
 Xenopus oocytes, these antibodies inhibit mRNA nuclear
 export. This inhibition of export is observed whether or not the mRNAs
 are generated by splicing. The antibodies do not interfere with
 pre-mRNA splicing or with the nuclear export of constitutive transport
 element (CTE)-containing RNAs (directly mediated by TAP), so REF
 proteins must play a critical role in mRNA nuclear export, acting
 downstream of splicing and upstream of TAP/Mex67p. We also show that
 recombinant REFs stimulate directly the export of mRNAs that are
 otherwise exported inefficiently. Together, our data indicate that REFs
 are directly implicated in the export of mRNAs from the nucleus. More
 generally, we show that spliced and unspliced mRNAs use common export
 factors to reach the cytoplasm.
DOC DONE!Abstract
p53 is required for the induction of a G1 and/or
 G2 irreversible arrest after γ irradiation (IR), whereas
 blocked DNA replication causes a p53-independent S-phase arrest. We
 have examined the response to p53 when DNA synthesis is blocked by
 hydroxyurea (HU) or aphidicolin or when DNA is damaged by γ IR.
 Similarly to γ IR, blocked DNA synthesis induces high levels of
 phosphorylated nuclear p53. Surprisingly, several (but not all) p53
 transcriptional targets that are rapidly induced by γ IR are weakly
 or not induced when DNA replication is blocked. Moreover, the p53
 response to γ IR is inhibited by pretreatment of cells with HU or
 aphidicolin, suggesting that blocked DNA replication prevents p53 from
 being fully active as a transcription factor. HU-induced stabilization
 of p53 neither requires functional ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated),
 nor interferes with the γ IR-dependent activation of the ATM kinase.
 Thus, stalled replication forks activate kinases that modify and
 stabilize p53, yet act downstream of ATM to impair p53 transcriptional
 activity. The ramifications of this novel regulation of p53 are
 discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The aim of this study is to elucidate the role of integrins
 in transducing fluid shear stress into intracellular signals in
 vascular endothelial cells, a fundamental process in vascular biology.
 We demonstrated that shear stress activates specific integrins in
 endothelial cells plated on substrates containing the cognate
 extracellular matrix (ECM) ligands. The shear stress-induced
 mechanotransduction, as manifested by integrin–Shc association, was
 abolished when new integrin–ECM ligand interactions were prevented by
 either blocking the integrin-binding sites of ECM ligands or
 conjugating the integrins to immobilized antibodies. Our results
 indicate that the dynamic formation of new connections between
 integrins and their specific ECM ligands is critical in relaying the
 signals induced by shear stress to intracellular pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The implantation of a blastocyst into a receptive uterus is
 associated with a series of events, namely the attachment reaction
 followed by decidualization of the stroma. Previous studies established
 that the gene encoding heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF)
 is expressed in the luminal epithelium solely at the site of blastocyst
 apposition preceding the attachment reaction. We report here the
 expression during implantation of 21 genes encoding other signaling
 proteins, including those belonging to the Bone morphogenetic protein
 (BMP), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), WNT, and Hedgehog (HH) pathways.
 We find that the attachment reaction is associated with a localized
 stromal induction of genes encoding BMP-2, FGF-2, and WNT-4. Despite
 efforts by many investigators, a simple in vitro model
 of implantation is not yet available to study either the hierarchy of
 the events triggered in the uterus by the embryo or the function of
 individual signaling proteins. We have therefore approached these
 questions by introducing beads loaded with purified factors into the
 receptive uterus. We show that beads soaked in HB-EGF or insulin-like
 growth factor-1 (IGF-1), but not other proteins, induce many of the
 same discrete local responses elicited by the blastocyst, including
 increased localized vascular permeability, decidualization, and
 expression of Bmp2 at the sites of the beads. By
 contrast, the expression domains of Indian hedgehog
 (Ihh), patched, and noggin
 become restricted as decidualization proceeds. Significantly, beads
 containing BMP-2 do not themselves elicit an implantation response but
 affect the spacing of implantation sites induced by blastocysts
 cotransferred with the beads.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The RET gene, encoding a receptor tyrosine kinase,
 is unusual among human protooncogenes in that its mutant alleles are
 implicated in a developmental defect involving enteric neurons as well
 as in tumorigenesis. The cells affected in both types of disorders are
 derived from the neural crest. Targeted disruption of mouse
 ret has revealed an additional role in kidney
 development. Here we report the analysis of a ret
 homolog in Drosophila melanogaster, an arthropod with no
 neural crest. Drosophila ret (D-ret)
 encodes a protein of 1,235 amino acids that has all of the domains
 identified in the vertebrate ret, including a cadherin
 motif. During embryogenesis, D-ret mRNA is first
 detected in the yolk sac at the late gastrula stage. In the
 postgastrula, D-ret is expressed in the foregut neurons,
 excretory system, peripheral ganglia, and the central nervous system.
 Thus, despite the wide divergence of early embryonic fate maps between
 vertebrates and invertebrates, D-ret is expressed in
 cells that are presumed to be the functional equivalents of the
 ret-expressing cells in vertebrates. Unexpectedly,
 D-ret is also expressed in the imaginal islands of the
 endodermal gut. These cells are proliferation-competent precursors for
 adult midgut that are diffusely embedded in the growth-arrested
 juvenile gut. These ret-expressing nonneuronal cells are
 strikingly analogous to vertebrate enteric neurons in their topography,
 but not in their cell fate. Our finding suggests a previously
 unrecognized phylogenetic relationship between the
 ret-expressing cells in vertebrates and the precursor
 reserves of metamorphosing insects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transition to pulmonary respiration following birth requires
 rapid alterations in the structure of the mammalian cardiovascular
 system. One dramatic change that occurs is the closure and remodeling
 of the ductus arteriosus (DA), an arterial connection in the fetus that
 directs blood flow away from the pulmonary circulation. A role for
 prostaglandins in regulating the closure of this vessel has been
 supported by pharmacological and genetic studies. The production of
 prostaglandins is dependent on two cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and COX-2),
 which are encoded by separate genes. We report here that the absence of
 either or both COX isoforms in mice does not result in premature
 closure of the DA in utero. However, 35% of
 COX-2(−/−) mice die with a patent DA within
 48 h of birth. In contrast, the absence of only the COX-1 isoform
 does not affect closure of the DA. The mortality (35%) and patent DA
 incidence due to absence of COX-2 is, however, significantly increased
 (79%) when one copy of the gene encoding COX-1 is also inactivated.
 Furthermore, 100% of the mice deficient in both isoforms die with a
 patent DA within 12 h of birth, indicating that in COX-2-deficient
 mice, the contribution of COX-1 to DA closure is gene dosage-dependent.
 Together, these data establish roles for COX-1, and especially for
 COX-2, in the transition of the cardiopulmonary circulation at birth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The homeobox factor PDX-1 is a key regulator of pancreatic
 morphogenesis and glucose homeostasis; targeted disruption of the PDX-1
 gene leads to pancreatic agenesis in pdx-1(−/−)
 homozygotes. Pdx-1 heterozygotes develop normally, but
 they display glucose intolerance in adulthood. Like certain other
 homeobox proteins, PDX-1 contains a consensus FPWMK motif that promotes
 heterodimer formation with the ubiquitous homeodomain protein PBX. To
 evaluate the importance of PDX-1:PBX complexes in pancreatic
 morphogenesis and glucose homeostasis, we expressed either wild-type or
 PBX interaction defective PDX-1 transgenes under control of the PDX-1
 promoter. Both wild-type and mutant PDX-1 transgenes corrected glucose
 intolerance in pdx-1 heterozygotes. The wild-type PDX-1
 transgene rescued the development of all pancreatic lineages in
 pdx-1(−/−) animals, and these mice
 survived to adulthood. In contrast, pancreata from
 pdx-1(−/−) mice expressing the mutant PDX-1
 transgene were hypoplastic, and these mice died within 3 weeks of birth
 from pancreatic insufficiency. All pancreatic cell types were observed
 in pdx-1(−/−) mice expressing the mutant PDX-1
 transgene; but the islets were smaller, and increased numbers of islet
 hormone-positive cells were noted within the ductal epithelium. These
 results indicate that PDX-1:PBX complexes are dispensable for glucose
 homeostasis and for differentiation of stem cells into ductal,
 endocrine, and acinar lineages; but they are essential for expansion of
 these populations during development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fertile and diploid nuclear transplants were successfully generated
 by using embryonic cells as donors in a small laboratory fish, medaka
 (Oryzias latipes). Embryonic cell nuclei from transgenic
 fish carrying the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene
 were transplanted into unfertilized eggs enucleated by x-ray
 irradiation. In this study, 1 out of 588 eggs transplanted in the first
 experiment and 5 out of 298 eggs transplanted in the second experiment
 reached the adult stage. All of these nuclear transplants were fertile
 and diploid, and the natural and GFP markers of the donor nuclei were
 transmitted to the F1 and F2 offspring in a
 Mendelian fashion. This systematic study proves the feasibility of
 generating nuclear transplants by using embryonic cells from fish as
 donors, and it is supported by convincing evidence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nuclear reprogramming requires the removal of epigenetic
 modifications imposed on the chromatin during cellular differentiation
 and division. The mammalian oocyte can reverse these alterations to a
 state of totipotency, allowing the production of viable cloned
 offspring from somatic cell nuclei. To determine whether nuclear
 reprogramming is complete in cloned animals, we assessed the telomerase
 activity and telomere length status in cloned embryos, fetuses, and
 newborn offspring derived from somatic cell nuclear transfer. In this
 report, we show that telomerase activity was significantly
 (P < 0.05) diminished in bovine fibroblast donor
 cells compared with embryonic stem-like cells, and surprisingly was
 16-fold higher in fetal fibroblasts compared with adult fibroblasts
 (P < 0.05). Cell passaging and culture periods
 under serum starvation conditions significantly decreased telomerase
 activity by approximately 30–50% compared with nontreated early
 passage cells (P < 0.05). Telomere shortening was
 observed during in vitro culture of bovine fetal
 fibroblasts and in very late passages of embryonic stem-like cells.
 Reprogramming of telomerase activity was apparent by the blastocyst
 stage of postcloning embryonic development, and telomere lengths were
 longer (15–23 kb) in cloned fetuses and offspring than the relatively
 short mean terminal restriction fragment lengths (14–18 kb) observed
 in adult donor cells. Overall, telomere lengths of cloned fetuses and
 newborn calves (≈20 kb) were not significantly different from those
 of age-matched control animals (P > 0.05). These
 results demonstrate that cloned embryos inherit genomic modifications
 acquired during the donor nuclei's in vivo and
 in vitro period but are subsequently reversed during
 development of the cloned animal.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plant species in at least 66 families produce extrafloral nectar
 (EFN) on their leaves or shoots and therewith attract predators and
 parasitoids, such as ants and wasps, which in turn defend them against
 herbivores. We investigated whether EFN secretion is induced by
 herbivory and/or artificial damage, and thus can be regarded as an
 induced defensive response. In addition, we studied the underlying
 signaling pathway. EFN secretion by field-grown Macaranga
 tanarius increased after herbivory, artificial leaf damage, and
 exogenous jasmonic acid (JA) application. Artificial damage strongly
 enhanced endogenous JA concentrations. The response in EFN
 production to artificial damage was much less pronounced in those
 leaves that were treated with phenidone to inhibit
 endogenous JA synthesis. Quantitative dose–response
 relations were found between the increase in nectar production and both
 the intensity of leaf damage and the amounts of exogenously applied JA.
 The amount of endogenously produced JA was positively
 correlated with the intensity of leaf damage. Increased numbers of
 defending insects and decreased numbers of herbivores were observed on
 leaves after inducing EFN production by exogenous JA treatment. Over 6
 weeks, repeatedly applied JA or artificial damage resulted in a
 ten-fold reduction in herbivory. These results demonstrate that EFN
 production represents an alternative mechanism for induced, indirect
 defensive plant responses that are mediated via the octadecanoid signal
 transduction cascade.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We test the predictive value of the main energetic currencies
 used in foraging theory using starlings that choose between two
 foraging modes (walking versus flying). Walking is low-cost, low-yield,
 whereas flying is the opposite. We fixed experimentally, at 11
 different values, the amount of flight required to get one food reward,
 and for each flight cost value, we titrated the amount of walking until
 the birds showed indifference between foraging modes. We then compared
 the indifference points to those predicted by gross rate of gain over
 time, net rate of gain over time, and the ratio of gain to expenditure
 (efficiency). The results for the choice between modes show strong
 qualitative and quantitative support for net rate of gain over time
 over the alternatives. However, the birds foraged for only a fraction
 of the available time, indicating that the choice between foraging and
 resting could not be explained by any of these currencies. We suggest
 that this discrepancy could be accounted for functionally because
 nonenergetic factors such as predation risk may differ between resting
 and foraging in any mode but may not differ much between foraging
 modes, hence releasing the choice between foraging modes from the
 influence of such factors. Alternatively, the discrepancy may be
 attributable to the use of predictable (rather than stochastic) ratios
 of effort per prey in our experiment, and it may thus be better
 understood with mechanistic rather than functional arguments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Invading organisms may spread through local movements (giving
 rise to a diffusion-like process) and by long-distance jumps, which are
 often human-mediated. The local spread of invading organisms has been
 fit with varying success to models that couple local population growth
 with diffusive spread, but to date no quantitative estimates exist for
 the relative importance of local dispersal relative to human-mediated
 long-distance jumps. Using a combination of literature review, museum
 records, and personal surveys, we reconstruct the invasion history of
 the Argentine ant (Linepithema humile), a widespread
 invasive species, at three spatial scales. Although the inherent
 dispersal abilities of Argentine ants are limited, in the last century,
 human-mediated dispersal has resulted in the establishment of this
 species on six continents and on many oceanic islands. Human-mediated
 jump dispersal has also been the primary mode of spread at a
 continental scale within the United States. The spread of the Argentine
 ant involves two discrete modes. Maximum distances spread by colonies
 undergoing budding reproduction averaged 150 m/year, whereas annual
 jump-dispersal distances averaged three orders of magnitude higher.
 Invasions that involve multiple dispersal processes, such as those
 documented here, are undoubtedly common. Detailed data on invasion
 dynamics are necessary to improve the predictive power of future
 modeling efforts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammals possess multiple, closely linked β-globin genes that
 differ in the timing of their expression during development. These
 genes have been thought to be derived from a single ancestral gene, by
 duplication events that occurred after the separation of the mammals
 and birds. We report the isolation and characterization of an atypical
 β-like globin gene (ω-globin) in marsupials that appears to be more
 closely related to avian β-globin genes than to other mammalian
 β-globin genes, including those previously identified in marsupials.
 Phylogenetic analyses indicate that ω-globin evolved from an ancient
 gene duplication event that occurred before the divergence of mammals
 and birds. Furthermore, we show that ω-globin is unlinked to the
 previously characterized β-globin gene cluster of marsupials, making
 this the first report of an orphaned β-like globin gene expressed in
 a vertebrate.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The negative effect of permanent contamination of populations
 because of spontaneous mutations does not appear to be very high if
 judged from the relatively good health of humans or many wild and
 domesticated species. This is partly explained by the fact that, in
 diploids, the new mutations are usually located in heterozygous loci
 and therefore are masked by wild-type alleles. The expression of
 mutations at the phenotypic level may also strongly depend on
 environmental factors if, for example, deleterious alleles are more
 easily compensated under favorable conditions. The present experiment
 uses diploid strains of yeast in which mutations arise at high rates
 because a mismatch-repair protein is missing. This mutagenesis resulted
 in a number of new alleles that were in heterozygous loci. They had no
 detectable effect on fitness when the environment was benign. A very
 different outcome was seen when thermal shock was applied, where
 fitness of the mutation-contaminated clones was lower and more diverse
 than that of the nonmutagenized clones. This shows that the genetic
 load conferred by spontaneous mutations can be underestimated or even
 overlooked in favorable conditions. Therefore, genetic variation can be
 higher and natural selection more intense when environmental conditions
 are getting poorer. These conclusions apply, at least, to that
 component of variation that directly originates from spontaneous
 mutations (as opposed to the variation resulting from the history of
 selection).
DOC DONE!Abstract
The central role of beneficial mutations for adaptive processes in
 natural populations is well established. Thus, there has been a
 long-standing interest to study the nature of beneficial mutations.
 Their low frequency, however, has made this class of mutations almost
 inaccessible for systematic studies. In the absence of experimental
 data, the distribution of the fitness effects of beneficial mutations
 was assumed to resemble that of deleterious mutations. For an
 experimental proof of this assumption, we used a novel marker system to
 trace adaptive events in an evolving Escherichia coli
 culture and to determine the selective advantage of those beneficial
 mutations. Ten parallel cultures were propagated for about 1,000
 generations by serial transfer, and 66 adaptive events were identified.
 From this data set, we estimate the rate of beneficial mutations to be
 4 × 10−9 per cell and generation. Consistent with an
 exponential distribution of the fitness effects, we observed a large
 fraction of advantageous mutations with a small effect and only few
 with large effect. The mean selection coefficient of advantageous
 mutations in our experiment was 0.02.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is an autosomal dominant
 cancer syndrome, characterized primarily by multiple tumors in the
 parathyroid glands, endocrine pancreas, and anterior pituitary. Other
 tumors, including gastrinoma, carcinoid, adrenal cortical tumors,
 angiofibroma, collagenoma, and lipoma, also occur in some patients.
 Individuals with MEN1 almost always have loss-of-function mutations in
 the MEN1 gene on chromosome 11, and endocrine tumors
 arising in these patients usually show somatic loss of the remaining
 wild-type allele. To examine the role of MEN1 in tumor
 formation, a mouse model was generated through homologous recombination
 of the mouse homolog Men1. Homozygous mice die in
 utero at embryonic days 11.5–12.5, whereas heterozygous mice
 develop features remarkably similar to those of the human disorder. As
 early as 9 months, pancreatic islets show a range of lesions from
 hyperplasia to insulin-producing islet cell tumors, and parathyroid
 adenomas are also frequently observed. Larger, more numerous tumors
 involving pancreatic islets, parathyroids, thyroid, adrenal cortex, and
 pituitary are seen by 16 months. All of the tumors tested to date show
 loss of the wild-type Men1 allele, further supporting
 its role as a tumor suppressor gene.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous group of diseases.
 Normal cytogenetics (CN) constitutes the single largest group, while
 trisomy 8 (+8) as a sole abnormality is the most frequent trisomy. How
 trisomy contributes to tumorigenesis is unknown. We used
 oligonucleotide-based DNA microarrays to study global gene expression
 in AML+8 patients with +8 as the sole chromosomal abnormality and
 AML-CN patients. CD34+ cells purified from normal bone
 marrow (BM) were also analyzed as a representative heterogeneous
 population of stem and progenitor cells. Expression patterns of AML
 patients were clearly distinct from those of CD34+ cells of
 normal individuals. We show that AML+8 blasts overexpress genes on
 chromosome 8, estimated at 32% on average, suggesting gene-dosage
 effects underlying AML+8. Systematic analysis by cellular function
 indicated up-regulation of genes involved in cell adhesion in both
 groups of AML compared with CD34+ blasts from normal
 individuals. Perhaps most interestingly, apoptosis-regulating
 genes were significantly down-regulated in AML+8 compared with AML-CN.
 We conclude that the clinical and cytogenetic heterogeneity of AML is
 due to fundamental biological differences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Visual pigments (rhodopsins) are composed of a chromophore (vitamin
 A derivative) bound to a protein moiety embedded in the retinal
 membranes. Animals cannot synthesize the visual chromophore de
 novo but rely on the uptake of carotenoids, from which vitamin
 A is formed enzymatically by oxidative cleavage. Despite its
 importance, the enzyme catalyzing the key step in vitamin A formation
 resisted molecular analyses until recently, when the successful cloning
 of a cDNA encoding an enzyme with β,β-carotene-15,15′-dioxygenase
 activity from Drosophila was reported. To prove its
 identity with the key enzyme for vitamin A formation in
 vivo, we analyzed the blind Drosophila mutant
 ninaB. In two independent ninaB alleles,
 we found mutations in the gene encoding the
 β,β-carotene-15,15′-dioxygenase. These mutations lead to a defect
 in vitamin A formation and are responsible for blindness of these
 flies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By passaging microcell hybrids (MCHs) containing human chromosome 3
 (chr3) on A9 mouse fibrosarcoma background through severe combined
 immunodeficient (SCID) mice (elimination test), we have previously
 defined a 1-Mb-long common eliminated region 1 (CER1) at 3p21.3, a
 second eliminated region (ER2) at 3p21.1-p14 and a common retained
 region (CRR) at 3q26-qter. In the present work, chr3 was transferred by
 microcell fusion into the human nonpapillary renal cell carcinoma line
 KH39 that contained uniparentally disomic chr3. Four MCHs were
 generated. Compared with KH39, they developed fewer and smaller tumors,
 which grew after longer latency periods in SCID mice. The tumors were
 analyzed in comparison with corresponding MCHs by chr3 arm-specific
 painting, 19 fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH)
 probes, and 27 polymorphic markers. Three MCHs that maintained the
 intact exogenous chr3 in vitro lost one 3p copy in all
 11 tumors. Seven of 11 tumors lost the exogenous 3p, whereas four
 tumors contained mixed cell populations that lacked either the
 exogenous or one endogenous KH39 derived 3p. In one MCH the
 exogenous chr3 showed deletions within CER1 and ER2 already in
 vitro. It remained essentially unchanged in 8/9 derived
 tumors. The third, exogenous copy of the 3q26–q27 region (part of CRR)
 was retained in 16/20 tumors. It can be concluded that the
 human/human MCH-based elimination test identifies similar eliminated
 and retained regions on chr3 as the human/murine MCH-based test.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Autoimmune diseases are among the most prevalent of
 afflictions, yet the genetic factors responsible are largely undefined.
 Protein glycosylation in the Golgi apparatus produces structural
 variation at the cell surface and contributes to immune
 self-recognition. Altered protein glycosylation and antibodies that
 recognize endogenous glycans have been associated with
 various autoimmune syndromes, with the possibility that such
 abnormalities may reflect genetic defects in glycan formation. We show
 that mutation of a single gene, encoding α-mannosidase II, which
 regulates the hybrid to complex branching pattern of extracellular
 asparagine (N)-linked oligosaccharide chains
 (N-glycans), results in a systemic autoimmune disease
 similar to human systemic lupus erythematosus. α-Mannosidase
 II-deficient autoimmune disease is due to an incomplete overlap of two
 conjoined pathways in complex-type N-glycan production.
 Lymphocyte development, abundance, and activation parameters are
 normal; however, serum immunoglobulins are increased and kidney
 function progressively falters as a disorder consistent with lupus
 nephritis develops. Autoantibody reactivity and circulating immune
 complexes are induced, and anti-nuclear antibodies exhibit reactivity
 toward histone, Sm antigen, and DNA. These findings reveal a genetic
 cause of autoimmune disease provoked by a defect in the pathway of
 protein N-glycosylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A peptide based on complementarity-determining region (CDR)-1 of a
 monoclonal murine anti-DNA Ab that bears the common idiotype, 16/6Id,
 was synthesized and characterized. The peptide, designated pCDR1, was
 found to be an immunodominant T-cell epitope in BALB/c mice. The
 CDR1-based peptide was shown to be capable of inhibiting the in
 vivo priming of BALB/c mice immunized with the peptide or
 with the whole anti-DNA 16/6Id+ mAbs of either mouse or
 human origin. We show here that administration of pCDR1 (weekly, i.v.,
 100 μg/mouse) in aqueous solution for 5 weeks starting at the time
 of disease induction with the human 16/6Id prevented the development
 of clinical manifestations of experimental systemic lupus erythematosus
 (SLE). Further, 10 weekly injections of pCDR1 to BALB/c mice with an
 established experimental SLE down-regulated clinical manifestations of
 SLE (e.g., anti-DNA auto-Abs, leukopenia, proteinuria, immune complex
 deposits in the kidneys) in the treated mice. Prevention of SLE
 induction was shown to be associated mainly with a decrease in the
 levels of IL-2, INFγ, and the proinflammatory cytokine TNFα. On the
 other hand, the secretion of the immunosuppressive cytokine TGFβ was
 elevated. Amelioration of the clinical manifestations of an already
 established experimental SLE correlated with a dramatic decrease in
 TNFα secretion, elevated levels of TGFβ, and immunomodulation of
 the Th1 and Th2 type cytokines to levels close to those observed in
 healthy mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antigen stimulation of mast cells via FcɛRI, the high-affinity
 receptor for IgE, triggers a signaling cascade that requires
 Ca2+ mobilization for exocytosis of secretory granules
 during an allergic response. This study investigates critical signaling
 components by using mutant RBL mast cells that are defective in
 antigen-stimulated phospholipase Cγ (PLCγ) activation, as well as
 other signaling activities downstream of stimulated tyrosine
 phosphorylation. We show that the expression of activated versions of
 the Cdc42 or Rac1 GTPase restores antigen-stimulated Ca2+
 mobilization necessary for degranulation in these mutant cells.
 Wild-type Cdc42 and Rac1, as well as activated Cdc42 containing
 effector domain mutations, all fail to restore antigen-stimulated
 signaling leading to exocytosis. Expression of oncogenic Dbl, a guanine
 nucleotide exchange factor for Cdc42 and Rac1, partially restores
 sustained Ca2+ mobilization and degranulation,
 suggesting that activation of endogenous Cdc42 and/or
 Rac1 is impaired in the mutant cells. Overexpression of PLCγ1 with
 either activated Cdc42 or Rac1 synergistically stimulates
 degranulation, consistent with a critical defect in PLCγ
 activation in these cells. Thus, our results point to activation of
 Cdc42 and/or Rac1 playing an essential role in antigen stimulation of
 early events that culminate in mast cell degranulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
During infection with Chlamydia trachomatis,
 CD8+ T cells are primed, even though the bacteria remain
 confined to a host cell vacuole throughout their developmental cycle.
 Because CD8+ T cells recognize antigens processed from
 cytosolic proteins, the Chlamydia antigens recognized by
 these CD8+ T cells very likely have access to the host cell
 cytoplasm during infection. The identity of these C.
 trachomatis proteins has remained elusive, even though their
 localization suggests they may play important roles in the biology of
 the organism. Here we use a retroviral expression system to identify
 Cap1, a 31-kDa protein from C. trachomatis recognized by
 protective CD8+ T cells. Cap1 contains no strong homology
 to any known protein. Immunofluorescence microscopy by using
 Cap1-specific antibody demonstrates that this protein is localized to
 the vacuolar membrane. Cap1 is virtually identical among the human
 C. trachomatis serovars, suggesting that a vaccine
 incorporating Cap1 might enable the vaccine to protect against all
 C. trachomatis serovars. The identification of proteins
 such as Cap1 that associate with the inclusion membrane will be
 required to fully understand the interaction of C.
 trachomatis with its host cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Somatically mutated IgM+-only and
 IgM+IgD+CD27+ B lymphocytes
 comprise ≈25% of the human peripheral B cell pool. These cells
 phenotypically resemble class-switched B cells and have therefore been
 classified as postgerminal center memory B cells. X-linked hyper IgM
 patients have a genetic defect characterized by a mutation of the
 CD40L gene. These patients, who do not express a
 functional CD40 ligand, cannot switch Ig isotypes and do not form
 germinal centers and memory B cells. We report here that an
 IgM+IgD+CD27+ B cell subset with
 somatically mutated Ig receptors is generated in these patients,
 implying that these cells expand and diversify their Ig receptors in
 the absence of classical cognate T–B collaboration. The presence of
 this sole subset in the absence of IgM+-only and switched
 CD27+ memory B cells suggests that it belongs to a separate
 diversification pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evidence on how much medical interventions work may change
 over time. It is important to determine what fluctuations in the
 treatment effect reported by randomized trials and their metaanalyses
 may be expected and whether extreme fluctuations signal future major
 changes. We applied recursive cumulative metaanalysis of randomized
 controlled trials to evaluate the relative change in the pooled
 treatment effect (odds ratio) over time for 60 interventions in two
 medical fields (pregnancy/perinatal medicine, n =
 45 interventions; myocardial infarction, n = 15
 interventions). We evaluated the scatter of relative changes for
 different numbers of total patients in previous trials. Outlier cases
 were noted with changes greater than 2.5 standard deviations of the
 expected. With 500 accumulated patients, the pooled odds ratio may
 change by 0.6- to 1.7-fold in the immediate future. When 2000 patients
 have already been randomized, the respective figures are between 0.74-
 and 1.35-fold for pregnancy/perinatal medicine and between 0.83- and
 1.21-fold for myocardial infarction studies. Extreme early fluctuations
 in the treatment effect were observed in three interventions (magnesium
 in myocardial infarction, calcium and antiplatelet agents for
 prevention of preeclampsia), where recent mega-trials have contradicted
 prior metaanalyses, as well as in four other examples where early large
 treatment effects were dissipated when more data appeared. Past
 experience may help quantify the uncertainty surrounding the treatment
 effects reported in early clinical trials and their metaanalyses. Early
 wide oscillations in the evolution of the treatment effect for specific
 interventions may sometimes signal further major changes in the future.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nonenzymatic glycosylation and cross-linking of proteins by glucose
 contributes to an age-associated increase in vascular and myocardial
 stiffness. Some recently sythesized thiazolium compounds selectively
 break these protein cross-links, reducing collagen stiffness. We
 investigated the effects of 3-phenacyl-4,5-dimethylthiazolium
 chloride (ALT-711) on arterial and left ventricular (LV) properties and
 their coupling in old, healthy, nondiabetic Macaca
 mulatta primates (age 21 ± 3.6 years). Serial
 measurements of arterial stiffness indices [i.e., aortic pulse wave
 velocity (PWV) and augmentation (AGI) of carotid arterial pressure
 waveform] as well as echocardiographic determinations of LV structure
 and function were made before and for 39 weeks after 11 intramuscular
 injections of ALT-711 at 1.0 mg/kg body weight every other day. Heart
 rate, brachial blood pressure, and body weight were unchanged by the
 drug. PWV and AGI decreased to a nadir at 6 weeks [PWV to 74.2 ±
 4.4% of baseline (B), P = 0.007; AGI to 41 ±
 7.3% of B, P = 0.046], and thereafter gradually
 returned to baseline. Concomitant increases in LV end diastolic
 diameter to 116.7 ± 2.7% of B, P = 0.02;
 stroke volume index (SVindex) to 173.1 ± 40.1%
 of B, P = 0.01; and systolic fractional shortening
 to 180 ± 29.7% of B, P = 0.01 occurred after
 drug treatment. The LV end systolic pressure/SVindex, an
 estimate of total LV vascular load, decreased to 60 ± 12.1% of B
 (P = 0.02). The LV end systolic
 diameter/SVindex, an estimate of arterio-ventricular
 coupling, was improved (decreased to 54.3 ± 11% of B,
 P < 0.002). Thus, in healthy older primates
 without diabetes, ALT-711 improved both arterial and ventricular
 function and optimized ventriculo-vascular coupling. This previously
 unidentified cross-link breaker may be an effective pharmacological
 therapy to improve impaired cardiovascular function that occurs in the
 context of heart failure associated with aging, diabetes, or
 hypertension, conditions in which arterial and ventricular stiffness
 are increased.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epithelial ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from
 gynecologic cancer, in part because of the lack of effective early
 detection methods. Although alterations of several genes, such as
 c-erb-B2, c-myc, and p53, have been
 identified in a significant fraction of ovarian cancers, none of these
 mutations are diagnostic of malignancy or predictive of tumor behavior
 over time. Here, we used oligonucleotide microarrays with probe sets
 complementary to >6,000 human genes to identify genes whose expression
 correlated with epithelial ovarian cancer. We extended current
 microarray technology by simultaneously hybridizing ovarian RNA samples
 in a highly parallel manner to a single glass wafer containing 49
 individual oligonucleotide arrays separated by gaskets within a
 custom-built chamber (termed “array-of-arrays”). Hierarchical
 clustering of the expression data revealed distinct groups of samples.
 Normal tissues were readily distinguished from tumor tissues, and
 tumors could be further subdivided into major groupings that correlated
 both to histological and clinical observations, as well as cell
 type-specific gene expression. A metric was devised to identify genes
 whose expression could be considered ideal for molecular determination
 of epithelial ovarian malignancies. The list of genes generated by this
 method was highly enriched for known markers of several epithelial
 malignancies, including ovarian cancer. This study demonstrates the
 rapidity with which large amounts of expression data can be generated.
 The results highlight important molecular features of human ovarian
 cancer and identify new genes as candidate molecular markers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Defects in polycystin-2, a ubiquitous transmembrane glycoprotein of
 unknown function, is a major cause of autosomal dominant polycystic
 kidney disease (ADPKD), whose manifestation entails the development of
 fluid-filled cysts in target organs. Here, we demonstrate that
 polycystin-2 is present in term human syncytiotrophoblast, where it
 behaves as a nonselective cation channel. Lipid bilayer reconstitution
 of polycystin-2-positive human syncytiotrophoblast apical membranes
 displayed a nonselective cation channel with multiple subconductance
 states, and a high perm-selectivity to Ca2+. This channel
 was inhibited by anti-polycystin-2 antibody, Ca2+,
 La3+, Gd3+, and the diuretic amiloride. Channel
 function by polycystin-2 was confirmed by patch-clamping experiments of
 polycystin-2 heterologously infected Sf9 insect cells. Further,
 purified insect cell-derived recombinant polycystin-2 and in
 vitro translated human polycystin-2 had similar ion channel
 activity. The polycystin-2 channel may be associated with fluid
 accumulation and/or ion transport regulation in target epithelia,
 including placenta. Dysregulation of this channel provides a mechanism
 for the onset and progression of ADPKD.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The tumor suppressor gene wild-type p53 encodes a
 labile protein that accumulates in cells after different stress signals
 and can cause either growth arrest or apoptosis. One of the p53
 target genes, p53-inducible gene 3 (PIG3), encodes a
 protein with significant homology to oxidoreductases, enzymes involved
 in cellular responses to oxidative stress and irradiation. This fact
 raised the possibility that cellular oxidation–reduction events
 controlled by such enzymes also may regulate the level of p53. Here we
 show that NADH quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) regulates p53 stability.
 The NQO1 inhibitor dicoumarol caused a reduction in the level of
 both endogenous and γ-irradiation-induced p53 in HCT116
 human colon carcinoma cells. This reduction was prevented by the
 proteasome inhibitors MG132 and lactacystin, suggesting enhanced p53
 degradation in the presence of dicoumarol. Dicoumarol-induced
 degradation of p53 also was prevented in the presence of simian virus
 40 large T antigen, which is known to bind and to stabilize p53. Cells
 overexpressing NQO1 were resistant to dicoumarol, and this finding
 indicates the direct involvement of NQO1 in p53 stabilization. NQO1
 inhibition induced p53 degradation and blocked wild-type p53-mediated
 apoptosis in γ-irradiated normal thymocytes and in M1 myeloid
 leukemic cells that overexpress wild-type p53.
 Dicoumarol also reduced the level of p53 in its mutant form in M1
 cells. The results indicate that NQO1 plays an important role in
 regulating p53 functions by inhibiting its degradation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Type XV collagen occurs widely in the basement membrane zones of
 tissues, but its function is unknown. To understand the biological role
 of this protein, a null mutation in the Col15a1 gene was
 introduced into the germ line of mice. Despite the complete lack of
 type XV collagen, the mutant mice developed and reproduced normally,
 and they were indistinguishable from their wild-type littermates.
 However, Col15a1-deficient mice showed progressive
 histological changes characteristic for muscular diseases after 3
 months of age, and they were more vulnerable than controls to
 exercise-induced muscle injury. Despite the antiangiogenic role of type
 XV collagen-derived endostatin, the development of the vasculature
 appeared normal in the null mice. Nevertheless, ultrastructural
 analyses revealed collapsed capillaries and endothelial cell
 degeneration in the heart and skeletal muscle. Furthermore, perfused
 hearts showed a diminished inotropic response, and exercise resulted in
 cardiac injury, changes that mimic early or mild heart disease. Thus,
 type XV collagen appears to function as a structural component needed
 to stabilize skeletal muscle cells and microvessels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein expression after delivery of plasmid DNA to the cell
 nucleus depends on the processes of transcription and translation.
 Cytotoxic gene-delivery systems may compromise these processes and
 limit protein expression. This situation is perhaps most prevalent in
 current nonviral polycationic gene-delivery systems in which the
 polycationic nature of the delivery system can lead to cytotoxicity. To
 approach the problem of creating nontoxic but effective gene-delivery
 systems, we hypothesized that by optimizing the balance between polymer
 cationic density with endosomal escape moieties, effective gene
 transfer with low cytotoxicity could be created. As a model system, we
 synthesized a series of polymers whose side-chain termini varied with
 respect to the balance of cationic centers and endosomal escape
 moieties. Specifically, by polymer-analogous amidation we conjugated
 imidazole groups to the ɛ-amines of polylysine in varying mole ratios
 (73.5 mol % imidazole, 82.5 mol % imidazole, and 86.5 mol %
 imidazole). The primary ɛ-amine terminus of polylysine served as a
 model for the cationic centers, whereas the imidazole groups served as
 a model for the endosomal escape moieties. These polymers condensed
 plasmid DNA into nanostructures <150 nm and possessed little
 cytotoxicity in vitro. Transfection efficiency, as
 measured by luciferase protein expression, increased with increasing
 imidazole content of the polymers in a nonlinear relationship. The
 polymer with the highest imidazole content (86.5 mol %) mediated the
 highest protein expression, with levels equal to those mediated by
 polyethylenimine, but with little to no cytotoxicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Systemic administration of hypoxia-selective
 64Cu-diacetyl-bis(N4-methylthiosemicarbazone)
 (64Cu-ATSM) has increased significantly the survival time
 of hamsters bearing human GW39 colon cancer tumors. Radiotherapy
 experiments were performed in animals bearing either 7-day-old
 (0.5–1.0 g) or 15-day-old (1.5–2.0 g) tumors. Studies compared
 animals treated with a single dose of 0, 4, 6, 7, 8, or 10 mCi of
 64Cu-ATSM (1 Ci = 37 GBq) with or without the
 vasodilator hydralazine. A multiple dose regimen of 3 × 4 mCi at
 72-h intervals was studied also. Single doses of >6 mCi of
 64Cu-ATSM and the dose-fractionation protocol significantly
 increased the survival time of the hamsters compared with controls. The
 highest dose, 10 mCi of 64Cu-ATSM, increased survival to
 135 days in 50% of animals bearing 7-day-old tumors, 6-fold longer
 than control animals' survival (20 days), with only transient
 leucopenia and thrombocytopenia but no overt toxicity. Human absorbed
 doses were calculated from hamster biodistribution; the dose-critical
 organs were the lower large intestine (1.43 ± 0.19 rad/mCi) and
 upper large intestine (1.20 ± 0.38 rad/mCi). High-resolution
 MRI and positron-emission tomography using a therapeutic administration
 of 10 mCi were used to monitor tumor volume and morphology and to
 assess tumor dosimetry accurately, giving a tumor dose of 81 ±
 7.5 rad/mCi. 64Cu-ATSM has increased the survival time of
 tumor-bearing animals significantly with no acute toxicity and thus is
 a promising agent for radiotherapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Polypeptide drugs are generally short-lived species in circulation.
 In this study, we have covalently linked seven moieties of
 2-sulfo-9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (FMS) to the amino groups of human
 interferon-α2. The derivative thus obtained
 (FMS7–IFN-α2) has ≈4% the biological potency and
 33 ± 4% the receptor binding capacity of the native cytokine.
 Upon incubation, FMS7–IFN-α2 undergoes time-dependent
 spontaneous hydrolysis, generating active interferon with
 t1/2 values of 24 ± 2 h at pH 8.5
 and 98 ± 10 h at pH 7.4. When native IFN-α2 is
 intravenously administered to mice, circulating antiviral activity is
 maintained for a short duration and then declines with
 t1/2 = 4 ± 0.5 h, reaching
 undetectable values at ≈18 h after administration. With intravenously
 administered FMS7–IFN-α2, there is a lag period of
 2 h, followed by a progressive elevation in circulating
 antiviral-active protein, which peaked at 20 h and declined with
 t1/2 = 35 ± 4 h.
 FMS7–IFN-α2 is resistant to α-chymotrypsin
 digest and to proteolytic inactivation by human serum proteases
 in vitro. We have thus introduced here an inactive
 IFN-α2 derivative, which is resistant to in situ
 inactivation and has the capability of slowly reverting to the native
 active protein at physiological conditions in vivo and
 in vitro. Having these attributes,
 FMS7–IFN-α2 maintains prolonged circulating antiviral
 activity in mice, exceeding 7–8 times the activity of intravenously
 administered native cytokine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The E6 oncoprotein of human papillomaviruses (HPVs) that are
 associated with cervical cancer utilizes the cellular
 ubiquitin–protein ligase E6-AP to target the tumor suppressor p53 for
 degradation. In normal cells (i.e., in the absence of E6), p53 is also
 a target of the ubiquitin–proteasome pathway. Under these conditions,
 however, p53 degradation is mediated by Mdm2 rather than by E6-AP. Here
 we show in a mutational analysis that, surprisingly, the structural
 requirements of p53 to serve as a proteolytic substrate differ between
 E6 proteins derived from different HPV types and, as expected, between
 Mdm2 and E6 proteins in vitro and in
 vivo. Stable expression of such mutants in HPV-negative and
 HPV-positive cell lines demonstrates that in HPV-positive cancer cells,
 the E6-dependent pathway of p53 degradation is not only active but,
 moreover, is required for degradation of p53, whereas the
 Mdm2-dependent pathway is inactive. Because the p53 pathway was
 reported to be functional in HPV-positive cancer cells, this finding
 indicates clearly that the ability of the E6 oncoprotein to target p53
 for degradation is required for the growth of HPV-positive cancer
 cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is implicated in the development of human
 B cell lymphomas and carcinomas. Although related oncogenic
 herpesviruses were believed to be endemic only in Old World primate
 species, we now find these viruses to be endemic in New World primates.
 We have isolated a transforming, EBV-related virus from spontaneous B
 cell lymphomas of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
 Sequencing of two-thirds of the genome reveals considerable divergence
 from the genomes of EBV and Old World primate EBV-related viruses,
 including differences in genes important for virus-induced cell growth
 transformation and pathogenesis. DNA related to the C.
 jacchus herpesvirus is frequently detected in squirrel monkey
 peripheral blood lymphocytes, indicating that persistent infection with
 EBV-related viruses is prevalent in both New World primate families.
 Understanding how these more divergent EBV-related viruses achieve
 similar biologic outcomes in their natural host is likely to provide
 important insights into EBV infection, B cell growth transformation,
 and oncogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mitral cell dendrites do more than passively integrate and convey
 synaptic potentials to the soma, they release transmitter onto local
 interneurones to mediate recurrent and lateral inhibition. Several
 mechanisms may control the level of dendritic intracellular calcium
 ([Ca2+]) and define timing for dendritic release. Here we
 investigated in vivo, how odor controls calcium dynamics
 in mitral cell dendrites by combining intracellular recording and
 two-photon microscopy imaging of [Ca2+]. During odor
 stimulation, two types of [Ca2+] changes accompany
 membrane potential oscillations that are phase-locked with the
 respiratory cycle: (i) one is graded and parallels the
 membrane potential, even below the threshold for action potential
 firing; (ii) a second is transient, triggered by sodium
 action potentials that invade the entire dendritic tree. These results
 indicate that mitral cell dendritic compartments are synchronized by
 action potentials and suggest that the efficacy of dendritic synapses
 is finely tuned by odor-evoked graded changes in [Ca2+].
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the adult peripheral nerve, microvillous processes of
 myelinating Schwann cells project to the nodes of Ranvier; their
 composition and physiologic function have not been established. As the
 ezrin-radixin-moesin (ERM) proteins are expressed in the microvilli of
 many epithelial cells, we have examined the expression and distribution
 of these proteins in Schwann cells and neurons in vitro
 and in vivo. Cultured Schwann cells express high levels
 of all three proteins and the ezrin-binding protein 50, whereas neurons
 express much lower, although detectable, levels of radixin and moesin.
 Ezrin is specific for Schwann cells. All three ERM proteins are
 expressed predominantly at the membrane of cultured Schwann cells,
 notably in their microvilli. In vivo, the ERM proteins
 are concentrated strikingly in the nodal processes of myelinating
 Schwann cells. Because these processes are devoid of myelin proteins,
 they represent a unique compartment of the myelinating Schwann cell.
 During development, the ERM proteins become concentrated at the ends of
 Schwann cells before myelin basic protein expression, demonstrating
 that Schwann cells are polarized longitudinally at the onset of
 myelination. ERM-positive Schwann cell processes overlie and are
 associated closely with nascent nodes of Ranvier, identified by
 clusters of ankyrin G. Ankyrin accumulation at the node precedes that
 of Caspr at the paranodes and therefore does not depend on the presence
 of mature paranodal junctions. These results demonstrate that nodes of
 Ranvier in the peripheral nervous system form in contact with
 specialized processes of myelinating Schwann cells that are highly
 enriched in ERM proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors cycle among classes of
 nonconducting resting states, conducting open states, and nonconducting
 desensitized states. We previously probed the structure of the
 mouse-muscle ACh receptor channel in the resting state obtained in the
 absence of agonist and in the open states obtained after brief exposure
 to ACh. We now have probed the structure in the stable desensitized
 state obtained after many minutes of exposure to ACh. Muscle-type
 receptor has the subunit composition α2βγδ. Each
 subunit has four membrane-spanning segments, M1–M4. The channel lumen
 in the membrane domain is lined largely by M2 and to a lesser extent by
 M1 from each of the subunits. We determined the rates of reaction of a
 small, sulfhydryl-specific, charged reagent, 2-aminoethyl
 methanethiosulfonate with cysteines substituted for residues in αM2
 and the αM1–M2 loop in the desensitized state and compared these
 rates to rates previously obtained in the resting and open states. The
 reaction rates of the substituted cysteines are different in the three
 functional states of the receptor, indicating significant structural
 differences. By comparing the rates of reaction of extracellularly and
 intracellularly added 2-aminoethyl methanethiosulfonate, we previously
 located the closed gate in the resting state between αG240 and
 αT244, in the predicted M1–M2 loop at the intracellular end of M2.
 Now, we have located the closed gate in the stable desensitized state
 between αG240 and αL251. The gate in the desensitized state
 includes the resting state gate and an extension further into M2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ovarian steroids, estrogen and progesterone, influence the
 sensitivity of certain neural processes to cannabinoid treatment by
 modulation of brain dopaminergic activity. We examined the effects of
 the active ingredient of cannabis,
 Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), on sexual behavior in
 female rats and its influence on steroid hormone receptors and
 neurotransmitters in the facilitation of sexual receptivity. Our
 results revealed that the facilitatory effect of THC was inhibited by
 antagonists to both progesterone and dopamine D1 receptors.
 To test further the idea that progesterone receptors (PR) and/or
 dopamine receptors (D1R) in the hypothalamus are required
 for THC-facilitated sexual behavior in rodents, antisense and sense
 oligonucleotides to PR and D1R were administered
 intracerebroventricularly (ICV) into the third cerebral ventricle of
 ovariectomized, estradiol benzoate-primed rats. Progesterone- and
 THC-facilitated sexual behavior was inhibited in animals treated with
 antisense oligonucleotides to PR or to D1R. Antagonists to
 cannabinoid receptor-1 subtype (CB1), but not to
 cannabinoid receptor-2 subtype (CB2) inhibited
 progesterone- and dopamine-facilitated sexual receptivity in female
 rats. Our studies indicate that THC acts on the CB1
 cannabinoid receptor to initiate a signal transduction response that
 requires both membrane dopamine and intracellular progesterone
 receptors for effective induction of sexual behavior.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The neurotransmitters dopamine (DA) and glutamate in the striatum
 play key roles in movement and cognition, and they are implicated in
 disorders of the basal ganglia such as Parkinson's disease. Excitatory
 synapses in striatum undergo a form of developmental plasticity
 characterized by a decrease in glutamate release probability. Here we
 demonstrate that this form of synaptic plasticity is DA and DA D2
 receptor dependent. Analysis of spontaneous synaptic responses
 indicates that a presynaptic mechanism involving inhibition of
 neurotransmitter release underlies the developmental plasticity. We
 suggest that a major role of DA in the striatum is to initiate
 mechanisms that regulate the efficacy of excitatory striatal synapses,
 producing a decrease in glutamate release.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Trafficking of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic
 acid (AMPA) receptors (AMPARs) at synapses has been suggested to play
 an important role in the expression of synaptic plasticity. Both the
 regulated and the constitutive trafficking of synaptic AMPARs are
 thought to involve the insertion and removal of receptors by means of
 an exocytotic and endocytotic process, respectively. In contrast,
 N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors
 (NMDARs), which are colocalized with AMPARs at excitatory synapses,
 appear to be much less dynamic. Here, we present evidence supporting
 the idea that synaptic AMPARs turn over through a constitutive
 endocytotic process and that glutamate application greatly enhances
 this turnover of AMPARs. The glutamate-induced internalization of
 AMPARs requires a rise in postsynaptic Ca2+. The AMPAR
 internalization is mimicked by latrunculin A, a drug that selectively
 depolymerizes actin and is blocked by jasplakinolide, a drug which
 stabilizes actin filaments. The rate of endocytosis is not altered by
 glutamate application, whereas a clear enhancement is observed with
 insulin application. We propose a model in which the glutamate-induced
 dissociation of AMPARs from their anchor on the postsynaptic membrane
 involves actin depolymerization, which allows the released AMPARs to
 segregate from the NMDARs and diffuse to a presumably perisynaptic
 site, where they become available to an endocytotic machinery and
 are selectively internalized.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We previously defined a cholesterol recognition/interaction amino
 acid consensus (CRAC;
 ATVLNYYVWRDNS) in the carboxyl
 terminus of the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), an outer
 mitochondrial membrane protein involved in the regulation of
 cholesterol transport into the mitochondria, the rate-determining step
 in steroid biosynthesis. We examined (i) the PBR–cholesterol
 interaction by UV crosslinking of the C17 side-chain containing
 progestin, promegestone, and (ii) the role of the CRAC domain of PBR in
 Leydig cell steroidogenesis by using a transducible peptide composed of
 the TAT domain of HIV and the CRAC domain of PBR.
 [3H]Promegestone photoincorporated into recombinant PBR,
 and this labeling was displaced by cholesterol.
 [3H]Promegestone also photoincorporated into the TAT-CRAC
 peptide. [3H]Promegestone crosslinking to TAT-CRAC could
 be displaced by cholesterol and promegestone, with IC50 values of 1 and
 200 μM, respectively. TAT-CRAC efficiently transduced into MA-10
 Leydig cells and inhibited the hCG- and cAMP-stimulated steroid
 production in a dose-dependent manner. TAT-CRAC did not affect the
 hCG-induced cAMP synthesis and the 22R-hydroxycholesterol-supported
 steroidogenesis. Mutated TAT-CRAC lost its ability to bind
 [3H]promegestone and to inhibit the hCG-stimulated
 steroidogenesis. These results show that TAT-CRAC binds cholesterol and
 competes for cholesterol interaction with endogenous PBR,
 suggesting that the cytosolic carboxyl-terminal domain of PBR is
 responsible for taking up and bringing steroidogenic cholesterol into
 the mitochondria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several lines of evidence suggest that planning eye movements and
 directing visuospatial attention share overlapping brain mechanisms.
 This study tested whether spatial attention can be enhanced by altering
 oculomotor signals within the brain. Monkeys performed a spatial
 attention task while neurons within the frontal eye field, an
 oculomotor area within prefrontal cortex, were electrically stimulated
 below the level at which eye movements are evoked. We found that we
 could improve the monkey's performance with microstimulation when, but
 only when, the object to be attended was positioned in the space
 represented by the cortical stimulation site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetically engineered mice with targeted disruption of the
 neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) gene established the inhibitory
 role of nitric oxide (NO) in male impulsive aggressive behavior. This
 was later confirmed by using selective nNOS inhibitors in male
 wild-type mice. The molecular mechanisms accounting for the aggressive
 behavior caused by the lack of neuronally derived NO is not known.
 Recent studies suggest that central serotonergic neuronal circuits and
 particularly 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors play a
 prominent role in the regulation of aggression. Accordingly, we
 investigated whether the aggressiveness caused by the lack of nNOS
 might be because of alterations in serotonergic function. We now
 demonstrate that the excessive aggressiveness and impulsiveness of nNOS
 knockout mice is caused by selective decrements in serotonin (5-HT)
 turnover and deficient 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B
 receptor function in brain regions regulating emotion. These results
 indicate an important role for NO in normal brain 5-HT function and may
 have significant implications for the treatment of
 psychiatric disorders characterized by aggressiveness and
 impulsivity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A previous paper described a network of simple integrate-and-fire
 neurons that contained output neurons selective for specific
 spatiotemporal patterns of inputs; only experimental results were
 described. We now present the principles behind the operation of this
 network and discuss how these principles point to a general class of
 computational operations that can be carried out easily and naturally
 by networks of spiking neurons. Transient synchrony of the action
 potentials of a group of neurons is used to signal “recognition”
 of a space–time pattern across the inputs of those neurons.
 Appropriate synaptic coupling produces synchrony when the inputs to
 these neurons are nearly equal, leaving the neurons unsynchronized or
 only weakly synchronized for other input circumstances. When the input
 to this system comes from timed past events represented by decaying
 delay activity, the pattern of synaptic connections can be set such
 that synchronization occurs only for selected spatiotemporal patterns.
 We show how the recognition is invariant to uniform time warp and
 uniform intensity change of the input events. The fundamental
 recognition event is a transient collective synchronization,
 representing “many neurons now agree,” an event that is then
 detected easily by a cell with a small time constant. If such
 synchronization is used in neurobiological computation, its hallmark
 will be a brief burst of gamma-band electroencephalogram noise when and
 where such a recognition event or decision occurs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interaction between signaling pathways regulates many cellular
 functions, including proliferation. The Gαs/cAMP
 pathway is known to inhibit signal flow from receptor tyrosine kinases
 to mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-1,2 and, thus, inhibit
 proliferation. Elevation of cAMP or adenovirus-directed expression of
 mutant (Q227L)–Gαs (αs*) inhibits the
 proliferation of rat vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in culture.
 Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) stimulated MAPK activation and
 DNA synthesis was also blocked by expression of αs*.
 However, it is not known whether such mechanisms are operative
 in vivo. Proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells
 in vivo was induced by balloon injury of carotid
 arteries in the rat. Recombinant adenovirus encoding β-galactosidase
 (β-gal) or αs* was applied to arterial segments injured
 by the balloon catheters. The αs*-treated vessels showed
 decreased phospho-MAPK staining in the intima as compared with
 β-gal-treated vessels. Application of αs*, but not
 β-gal containing adenovirus, inhibited formation of neointima by
 50%. No change was observed in total vessel diameter or in the media
 or adventitia. These results suggest that the interaction between the
 Gαs and MAPK pathways can regulate proliferation
 in vivo and that targeted expression of activated
 Gαs may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of
 vascular pathophysiologies that arise from intimal hyperplasia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), a prostanoid-synthesizing enzyme that
 contributes to the toxicity associated with inflammation, has recently
 emerged as a promising therapeutic target for several illnesses,
 ranging from osteoarthritis to Alzheimer's disease. Although COX-2 has
 also been linked to ischemic stroke, its role in the mechanisms of
 ischemic brain injury remains controversial. We demonstrate that
 COX-2-deficient mice have a significant reduction in the brain injury
 produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. The protection can
 be attributed to attenuation of glutamate neurotoxicity, a
 critical factor in the initiation of ischemic brain injury, and to
 abrogation of the deleterious effects of postischemic inflammation, a
 process contributing to the secondary progression of the damage. Thus,
 COX-2 is involved in pathogenic events occurring in both the early and
 late stages of cerebral ischemia and may be a valuable therapeutic
 target for treatment of human stroke.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is a
 cAMP-dependent protein kinase- and ATP-regulated chloride channel, the
 activity of which determines the rate of electrolyte and fluid
 transport in a variety of epithelial tissues. Here we describe a
 mechanism that regulates CFTR channel activity, which is mediated by
 PDZ domains, a family of conserved protein-interaction modules. The
 Na+/H+ exchanger regulatory factor (NHERF)
 binds to the cytoplasmic tail of CFTR through either of its two PDZ
 (PDZ1 and PDZ2) domains. A recombinant fragment of NHERF (PDZ1–2)
 containing the two PDZ domains increases the open probability
 (Po) of single CFTR channels in excised
 membrane patches from a lung submucosal gland cell line. Both PDZ
 domains are required for this functional effect, because peptides
 containing mutations in either domain are unable to increase channel
 Po. The concentration dependence of the
 regulation by the bivalent PDZ1–2 domain is biphasic, i.e., activating
 at lower concentrations and inhibiting at higher concentrations.
 Furthermore, either PDZ domain alone or together is without effect on
 Po, but either domain can competitively
 inhibit the PDZ1–2-mediated stimulation of CFTR. Our results support a
 molecular model in which bivalent NHERF PDZ domains regulate channel
 gating by crosslinking the C-terminal tails in a single
 dimeric CFTR channel, and the magnitude of this regulation is coupled
 to the stoichiometry of these interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fruit development in higher plants normally requires pollination
 and fertilization to stimulate cell division of specific floral
 tissues. In some cases, parthenocarpic fruit development proceeds
 without either pollination or fertilization. Parthenocarpic fruit
 without seed has higher commercial value than seeded fruit. Several
 apple (Malus domestica) mutants (Rae Ime, Spencer
 Seedless and Wellington Bloomless) are known to produce only apetalous
 flowers that readily go on to develop into parthenocarpic fruit.
 Through genetics, a single recessive gene has been identified to
 control this trait in apple. Flower phenotypes of these apple mutants
 are strikingly similar to those of the Arabidopsis
 mutant pistillata (pi), which produces
 flowers where petals are transformed to sepals and stamens to carpels.
 In this study, we have cloned the apple PI homolog
 (MdPI) that shows 64% amino acid sequence identity and
 closely conserved intron positions and mRNA expression patterns to the
 Arabidopsis PI. We have identified that in the apetalous
 mutants MdPI has been mutated by a retrotransposon
 insertion in intron 4 in the case of Rae Ime and in intron 6 in the
 case of Spencer Seedless and Wellington Bloomless. The insertion
 apparently abolishes the normal expression of the MdPI
 gene. We conclude that the loss of function mutation in the
 MdPI MADS-box transcription factor confers
 parthenocarpic fruit development in these apple varieties and
 demonstrates another function for the MADS- box gene family. The
 knowledge generated here could be used to produce parthenocarpic
 fruit cultivars through genetic engineering.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the adult hippocampus, gonadal steroids induce neural remodeling
 through cellular and molecular mechanisms that are largely unknown. The
 calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule N-cadherin, which
 participates in the developmental organization of the nervous system,
 has recently been localized to hippocampal synapses and is suspected to
 participate in adult synaptic physiology. Little is currently known
 about the regulation of cadherins in the adult central nervous system,
 although posttranslational modifications are thought to account for
 variability in N-cadherin expression levels. To evaluate the
 possibility that gonadal steroids regulate N-cadherin in the adult
 hippocampus, we examined hippocampal N-cadherin mRNA levels and protein
 expression in castrated adult male rats treated with testosterone, or
 its metabolites 17β-estradiol or dihydrotestosterone. Northern blot
 analysis indicated increased hippocampal N-cadherin mRNA levels in the
 adult rat hippocampus after treatment with 17β-estradiol but not
 testosterone or dihydrotestosterone. Increased N-cadherin
 immunoreactivity was observed in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells after
 17β-estradiol treatment. Additionally, both 17β-estradiol and
 testosterone treatment increased N-cadherin immunoreactivity in the
 neuropil of the stratum lacunosum-moleculare, which includes apical
 dendrites from pyramidal cells. In contrast, dihydrotestosterone
 treatment had no effect on levels of N-cadherin protein expression in
 CA1 or CA3 pyramidal cells or in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare.
 These results demonstrate that, in the hippocampus, expression levels
 of N-cadherin are dynamic in adulthood. To our knowledge, there have
 been no other demonstrations of steroid regulation of cadherin
 expression in neural populations. These results suggest a possible
 adhesive mechanism for steroid-induced plasticity of the adult nervous
 system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Convection in the tropics is observed to involve a
 wide-ranging hierarchy of scales from a few kilometers to the planetary
 scales and also has a profound impact on short-term climate. The
 mechanisms responsible for this behavior present a major unsolved
 problem. A promising emerging approach to address these issues is
 cloud-resolving modeling. Here a family of numerical models is
 introduced specifically to model the feedback of small-scale deep
 convection on tropical planetary waves and tropical circulation in a
 highly efficient manner compatible with the approach through
 cloud-resolving modeling. Such a procedure is also useful for
 theoretical purposes. The basic idea in the approach is to use
 low-order truncation in the meriodonal direction through Gauss–Hermite
 quadrature projected onto a simple discrete radiation condition. In
 this fashion, the cloud-resolving modeling of equatorially trapped
 planetary waves reduces to the solution of a small number of purely
 zonal two-dimensional wave systems along a few judiciously chosen
 meriodonal layers that are coupled only by some additional source
 terms. The approach is analyzed in detail with full mathematical rigor
 for linearized equatorial primitive equations with source terms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A large part of the pre-Columbian Maya book known as the Dresden
 Codex is concerned with an exploration of commensurate relationships
 among celestial cycles and their relationship to other, nonastronomical
 cycles of cultural interest. As has long been known, pages 43b–45b of
 the Codex are concerned with the synodic cycle of Mars. New work
 reported here with another part of the Codex, a complex table on pages
 69–74, reveals a concern on the part of the ancient Maya astronomers
 with the sidereal motion of Mars as well as with its synodic cycle. Two
 kinds of empiric sidereal intervals of Mars were used, a long one (702
 days) that included a retrograde loop and a short one that did not. The
 use of these intervals, which is indicated by the documents in the
 Dresden Codex, permitted the tracking of Mars across the zodiac and the
 relating of its movements to the terrestrial seasons and to the 260-day
 sacred calendar. While Kepler solved the sidereal problem of Mars by
 proposing an elliptical heliocentric orbit, anonymous but equally
 ingenious Maya astronomers discovered a pair of time cycles that not
 only accurately described the planet's motion, but also related it to
 other cosmic and terrestrial concerns.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dynamic combinatorial libraries are mixtures of compounds
 that exist in a dynamic equilibrium and can be driven to compositional
 self adaptation via selective binding of a specific assembly of certain
 components to a molecular target. We present here an extension of this
 initial concept to dynamic libraries that consists of two levels, the
 first formed by the coordination of terpyridine-based ligands to the
 transition metal template, and the second, by the imine formation with
 the aldehyde substituents on the terpyridine moieties. Dialdehyde 7 has
 been synthesized, converted into a variety of ligands, oxime ethers
 L11–L33 and acyl hydrazones
 L44–L77, and subsequently into corresponding
 cobalt complexes. A typical complex,
 Co(L22)22+ is shown to engage in rapid
 exchange with a competing ligand L11 and with another
 complex, Co(L22)22+ in 30%
 acetonitrile/water at pH 7.0 and 25°C. The exchange in the
 corresponding Co(III) complexes is shown to be much slower. Imine
 exchange in the acyl hydrazone complexes
 (L44–L77) is strongly controlled by pH and
 temperature. The two types of exchange, ligand and imine, can thus be
 used as independent equilibrium processes controlled by different types
 of external intervention, i.e., via oxidation/reduction of the metal
 template and/or change in the pH/temperature of the medium. The
 resulting double-level dynamic libraries are therefore named
 orthogonal, in similarity with the orthogonal protecting groups in
 organic synthesis. Sample libraries of this type have been synthesized
 and showed the complete expected set of components in electrospray
 ionization MS.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Equilibrium unilamellar vesicles are stabilized by one of two
 distinct mechanisms depending on the value of the bending constant.
 Helfrich undulations ensure that the interbilayer potential is always
 repulsive when the bending constant, K, is of order
 kBT. When K
 ≫ kBT, unilamellar
 vesicles are stabilized by the spontaneous curvature that picks out a
 particular vesicle radius; other radii are disfavored energetically. We
 present measurements of the bilayer elastic constant and the
 spontaneous curvature, Ro, for three
 different systems of equilibrium vesicles by an analysis of the vesicle
 size distribution determined by cryo-transmission electron microscopy
 and small-angle neutron scattering. For cetyltrimethylammonium bromide
 (CTAB)/sodium octyl sulfonate catanionic vesicles,
 K = .7
 kBT, suggesting that the
 unilamellar vesicles are stabilized by Helfrich-undulation repulsions.
 However, for CTAB and sodium perfluorooctanoate
 (FC7) vesicles, K = 6
 kBT, suggesting stabilization
 by the energetic costs of deviations from the spontaneous curvature.
 Adding electrolyte to the sodium perfluorooctanoate/CTAB vesicles
 leads to vesicles with two bilayers; the attractive interactions
 between the bilayers can overcome the cost of small deviations from the
 spontaneous curvature to form two-layer vesicles, but larger deviations
 to form three and more layer vesicles are prohibited. Vesicles with a
 discrete numbers of bilayers at equilibrium are possible only for
 bilayers with a large bending modulus coupled with a spontaneous
 curvature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have suggested that modified bones from the Lower
 Paleolithic sites of Swartkrans and Sterkfontein in South Africa
 represent the oldest known bone tools and that they were used by
 Australopithecus robustus to dig up tubers. Macroscopic
 and microscopic analysis of the wear patterns on the purported bone
 tools, pseudo bone tools produced naturally by known taphonomic
 processes, and experimentally used bone tools confirm the anthropic
 origin of the modifications. However, our analysis suggests that these
 tools were used to dig into termite mounds, rather than to dig for
 tubers. This result indicates that early hominids from southern Africa
 maintained a behavioral pattern involving a bone tool material culture
 that may have persisted for a long period and strongly supports the
 role of insectivory in the early hominid diet.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Accelerator mass spectrometry age determinations of maize cobs
 (Zea mays L.) from Guilá Naquitz Cave in Oaxaca,
 Mexico, produced dates of 5,400 carbon-14 years before the present
 (about 6,250 calendar years ago), making those cobs the oldest in the
 Americas. Macrofossils and phytoliths characteristic of wild and
 domesticated Zea fruits are absent from older strata
 from the site, although Zea pollen has previously been
 identified from those levels. These results, together with the modern
 geographical distribution of wild Zea mays, suggest that
 the cultural practices that led to Zea domestication
 probably occurred elsewhere in Mexico. Guilá Naquitz Cave has now
 yielded the earliest macrofossil evidence for the domestication of two
 major American crop plants, squash (Cucurbita pepo) and
 maize.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of the three most ancient Zea mays
 inflorescence fragments from Guilá Naquitz, Oaxaca, Mexico shows
 they did not disarticulate naturally, indicating that agricultural
 selection of domesticated teosinte was underway by 5,400
 14C years before the present (about 4,200 dendrocalibrated
 years B.C.). The cooccurrence of two-ranked specimens with two rows and
 four rows of grain and numerous additional morphological
 characteristics of these specimens support hypotheses based on
 molecular and quantitative genetic analyses that maize evolved from
 teosinte. Domestication of the wild ancestor of maize occurred before
 the end of the 5th millennium B.C.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A large part of the pre-Columbian Maya book known as the Dresden
 Codex is concerned with an exploration of commensurate relationships
 among celestial cycles and their relationship to other, nonastronomical
 cycles of cultural interest. As has long been known, pages 43b–45b of
 the Codex are concerned with the synodic cycle of Mars. New work
 reported here with another part of the Codex, a complex table on pages
 69–74, reveals a concern on the part of the ancient Maya astronomers
 with the sidereal motion of Mars as well as with its synodic cycle. Two
 kinds of empiric sidereal intervals of Mars were used, a long one (702
 days) that included a retrograde loop and a short one that did not. The
 use of these intervals, which is indicated by the documents in the
 Dresden Codex, permitted the tracking of Mars across the zodiac and the
 relating of its movements to the terrestrial seasons and to the 260-day
 sacred calendar. While Kepler solved the sidereal problem of Mars by
 proposing an elliptical heliocentric orbit, anonymous but equally
 ingenious Maya astronomers discovered a pair of time cycles that not
 only accurately described the planet's motion, but also related it to
 other cosmic and terrestrial concerns.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have suggested that modified bones from the Lower
 Paleolithic sites of Swartkrans and Sterkfontein in South Africa
 represent the oldest known bone tools and that they were used by
 Australopithecus robustus to dig up tubers. Macroscopic
 and microscopic analysis of the wear patterns on the purported bone
 tools, pseudo bone tools produced naturally by known taphonomic
 processes, and experimentally used bone tools confirm the anthropic
 origin of the modifications. However, our analysis suggests that these
 tools were used to dig into termite mounds, rather than to dig for
 tubers. This result indicates that early hominids from southern Africa
 maintained a behavioral pattern involving a bone tool material culture
 that may have persisted for a long period and strongly supports the
 role of insectivory in the early hominid diet.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Accelerator mass spectrometry age determinations of maize cobs
 (Zea mays L.) from Guilá Naquitz Cave in Oaxaca,
 Mexico, produced dates of 5,400 carbon-14 years before the present
 (about 6,250 calendar years ago), making those cobs the oldest in the
 Americas. Macrofossils and phytoliths characteristic of wild and
 domesticated Zea fruits are absent from older strata
 from the site, although Zea pollen has previously been
 identified from those levels. These results, together with the modern
 geographical distribution of wild Zea mays, suggest that
 the cultural practices that led to Zea domestication
 probably occurred elsewhere in Mexico. Guilá Naquitz Cave has now
 yielded the earliest macrofossil evidence for the domestication of two
 major American crop plants, squash (Cucurbita pepo) and
 maize.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of the three most ancient Zea mays
 inflorescence fragments from Guilá Naquitz, Oaxaca, Mexico shows
 they did not disarticulate naturally, indicating that agricultural
 selection of domesticated teosinte was underway by 5,400
 14C years before the present (about 4,200 dendrocalibrated
 years B.C.). The cooccurrence of two-ranked specimens with two rows and
 four rows of grain and numerous additional morphological
 characteristics of these specimens support hypotheses based on
 molecular and quantitative genetic analyses that maize evolved from
 teosinte. Domestication of the wild ancestor of maize occurred before
 the end of the 5th millennium B.C.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A mathematical model for regulation of the tryptophan operon is
 presented. This model takes into account repression, feedback enzyme
 inhibition, and transcriptional attenuation. Special attention is given
 to model parameter estimation based on experimental data. The model's
 system of delay differential equations is numerically solved, and the
 results are compared with experimental data on the temporal evolution
 of enzyme activity in cultures of Escherichia coli after a
 nutritional shift (minimal + tryptophan medium to minimal medium).
 Good agreement is obtained between the numeric simulations and the
 experimental results for wild-type E. coli, as well as for
 two different mutant strains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proline-rich γ-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla) proteins
 (PRGPs) 1 and 2 are the founding members of a family of vitamin
 K-dependent single-pass integral membrane proteins characterized by an
 extracellular amino terminal domain of approximately 45 amino acids
 that is rich in Gla. The intracellular carboxyl terminal region of
 these two proteins contains one or two copies of the sequence PPXY, a
 motif present in a variety of proteins involved in such diverse
 cellular functions as signal transduction, cell cycle progression, and
 protein turnover. In this report, we describe the cloning of the cDNAs
 for two additional human transmembrane Gla proteins (TMG) of 20–24 kDa
 named TMG3 and TMG4. These two proteins possess extracellular Gla
 domains with 13 or 9 potential Gla residues, respectively,
 followed by membrane-spanning hydrophobic regions and cytoplasmic
 carboxyl terminal regions that contain PPXY motifs. This emerging
 family of integral membrane Gla proteins includes proline-rich Gla
 protein (PRGP) 1, PRGP2, TMG3, and TMG4, all of which are characterized
 by broad and variable distribution in both fetal and adult tissues.
 Members of this family can be grouped into two subclasses on the basis
 of their gene organization and amino acid sequence. These observations
 suggest novel physiological functions for vitamin K beyond its known
 role in the biosynthesis of proteins involved in blood coagulation and
 bone development. The identification and characterization of these
 proteins may allow a more complete understanding of the teratogenic
 consequences of exposure in utero to vitamin K
 antagonists, such as warfarin-based anticoagulants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids in plants, many
 bacteria, and microbes relies on the enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate
 3-phosphate (EPSP) synthase, a prime target for drugs and herbicides.
 We have identified the interaction of EPSP synthase with one of its two
 substrates (shikimate 3-phosphate) and with the widely used herbicide
 glyphosate by x-ray crystallography. The two-domain enzyme closes on
 ligand binding, thereby forming the active site in the interdomain
 cleft. Glyphosate appears to occupy the binding site of the second
 substrate of EPSP synthase (phosphoenol pyruvate), mimicking an
 intermediate state of the ternary enzyme⋅substrates complex. The
 elucidation of the active site of EPSP synthase and especially of the
 binding pattern of glyphosate provides a valuable roadmap for
 engineering new herbicides and herbicide-resistant crops, as well as
 new antibiotic and antiparasitic drugs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding the structural organization of the genome is
 particularly relevant in segmented double-stranded RNA viruses, which
 exhibit endogenous transcription activity. These viruses
 are molecular machines capable of repeated cycles of transcription
 within the intact capsid. Rotavirus, a major cause of infantile
 gastroenteritis, is a prototypical segmented double-stranded RNA virus.
 From our three-dimensional structural analyses of rotavirus examined
 under various chemical conditions using electron cryomicroscopy, we
 show here that the viral genome exhibits a remarkable conformational
 flexibility by reversibly changing its packaging density. In the
 presence of ammonium ions at high pH, the genome condenses to a radius
 of ≈180 Å from ≈220 Å. Upon returning to physiological
 conditions, the genome re-expands and fully maintains its
 transcriptional properties. These studies provide further insights into
 the genome organization and suggest that the observed isometric and
 concentric nature of the condensation is due to strong interactions
 between the genome core and the transcription enzymes anchored to the
 capsid inner surface. The ability of the genome to condense beyond what
 is normally observed in the native virus indicates that the negative
 charges on the RNA in the native state may be only partially
 neutralized. Partial neutralization may be required to maintain
 appropriate interstrand spacing for templates to move around the enzyme
 complexes during transcription. Genome condensation was not observed
 either with increased cation concentrations at normal pH or at high pH
 without ammonium ions. This finding indicates that the observed genome
 condensation is a synergistic effect of hydroxyl and ammonium ions
 involving disruption of protein–RNA interactions that perhaps
 facilitate further charge neutralization and consequent reduction in
 the interstrand spacing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations of the VHL tumor suppressor gene occur in patients with
 VHL disease and in the majority of sporadic clear cell renal carcinomas
 (VHL−/− RCC). Loss of VHL protein function is associated
 with constitutive expression of mRNAs encoding hypoxia-inducible
 proteins, such as vascular endothelial growth factor. Overproduction of
 angiogenic factors might explain why VHL−/− RCC tumors
 are so highly vascularized, but whether this overproduction is
 sufficient for oncogenesis still remains unknown. In this report, we
 examined the activity of transforming growth factor-α (TGF-α),
 another VHL-regulated growth factor. We show that TGF-α mRNA and
 protein are hypoxia-inducible in VHL−/− RCC cells
 expressing reintroduced VHL. In addition to its overexpression by
 VHL−/− RCC cells, TGF-α can also act as a specific
 growth-stimulatory factor for VHL−/− RCC cells expressing
 reintroduced wild-type VHL, as well as primary renal proximal tubule
 epithelial cells, the likely site of origin of RCC. This role is in
 contrast to those of other growth factors overexpressed by
 VHL−/− RCC cells, such as vascular endothelial growth
 factor and TGF-β1, which do not stimulate RCC cell proliferation. A
 TGF-α-specific antisense oligodeoxynucleotide blocked TGF-α
 production in VHL−/− RCC cells, which led to the
 dependence of those cells on exogenous growth factors to sustain growth
 in culture. Growth of VHL−/− RCC cells was also
 significantly reduced by a drug that specifically inhibits the
 epidermal growth factor receptor, the receptor through which TGF-α
 stimulates proliferation. These results suggest that the generation of
 a TGF-α autocrine loop as a consequence of VHL inactivation in renal
 proximal tubule epithelial cells may provide the uncontrolled growth
 stimulus necessary for the initiation of tumorigenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Peptide bond formation by the ribosome requires 23S rRNA and its
 interaction with the 3′-CCA end of tRNA. To investigate the possible
 evolutionary development of the peptidyl transfer reaction, we tried to
 obtain peptide bond formation without the ribosome or rRNA simply by
 using a piece of tRNA—an aminoacyl-minihelix—mixed with
 sequence-specific oligonucleotides that contained puromycin. Peptide
 bond formation was detected by gel electrophoresis, TLC analysis, and
 mass spectrometry. Peptide synthesis depended on sequence
 complementarity between the 3′-CCA sequence of the minihelix and the
 puromycin-bearing oligonucleotide. However, proximity of the reacting
 species was not by itself sufficient for peptide bond formation. In
 addition, imidazole as a catalyst was required. Its role may be similar
 to the recently proposed mechanism, wherein A2451 of 23S rRNA works as
 a general base. Thus, peptide bond formation can be achieved with a
 simple, minimized system that captures the essence of an interaction
 seen in the ribosome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The water-selective pathway through the aquaporin-1 membrane
 channel has been visualized by fitting an atomic model to a 3.7-Å
 resolution three-dimensional density map. This map was determined by
 analyzing images and electron diffraction patterns of
 lipid-reconstituted two-dimensional crystals of aquaporin-1 preserved
 in vitrified buffer in the absence of any additive. The aqueous pathway
 is characterized by a size-selective pore that is ≈4.0 ± 0.5Å
 in diameter, spans a length of ≈18Å, and bends by ≈25° as it
 traverses the bilayer. This narrow pore is connected by wide,
 funnel-shaped openings at the extracellular and cytoplasmic faces. The
 size-selective pore is outlined mostly by hydrophobic residues,
 resulting in a relatively inert pathway conducive to diffusion-limited
 water flow. The apex of the curved pore is close to the locations of
 the in-plane pseudo-2-fold symmetry axis that relates the N- and
 C-terminal halves and the conserved, functionally important N76 and
 N192 residues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Three-dimensional (3D) domain-swapped proteins are intermolecularly
 folded analogs of monomeric proteins; both are stabilized by the
 identical interactions, but the individual domains interact
 intramolecularly in monomeric proteins, whereas they form
 intermolecular interactions in 3D domain-swapped structures. The
 structures and conditions of formation of several domain-swapped dimers
 and trimers are known, but the formation of higher order 3D
 domain-swapped oligomers has been less thoroughly studied. Here we
 contrast the structural consequences of domain swapping from two
 designed three-helix bundles: one with an up-down-up topology, and the
 other with an up-down-down topology. The up-down-up topology gives rise
 to a domain-swapped dimer whose structure has been determined to 1.5 Å
 resolution by x-ray crystallography. In contrast, the domain-swapped
 protein with an up-down-down topology forms fibrils as shown by
 electron microscopy and dynamic light scattering. This demonstrates
 that design principles can predict the oligomeric state of 3D
 domain-swapped molecules, which should aid in the design of
 domain-swapped proteins and biomaterials.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An additivity-based sequence to reactivity algorithm for the
 interaction of members of the Kazal family of protein inhibitors with
 six selected serine proteinases is described. Ten consensus variable
 contact positions in the inhibitor were identified, and the 19 possible
 variants at each of these positions were expressed. The free energies
 of interaction of these variants and the wild type were measured. For
 an additive system, this data set allows for the calculation of all
 possible sequences, subject to some restrictions. The algorithm was
 extensively tested. It is exceptionally fast so that all possible
 sequences can be predicted. The strongest, the most specific possible,
 and the least specific inhibitors were designed, and an evolutionary
 problem was solved.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Based on the discovery of coenzyme Q (CoQ) as an obligatory
 cofactor for H+ transport by uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1)
 [Echtay, K. S., Winkler, E. & Klingenberg, M. (2000)
 Nature (London) 408, 609–613] we show here that UCP2
 and UCP3 are also highly active H+ transporters and require
 CoQ and fatty acid for H+ transport, which is inhibited by
 low concentrations of nucleotides. CoQ is proposed to facilitate
 injection of H+ from fatty acid into UCP. Human UCP2 and 3
 expressed in Escherichia coli inclusion bodies are
 solubilized, and by exchange of sarcosyl against digitonin, nucleotide
 binding as measured with
 2′-O-[5-(dimethylamino)naphthalene-1-sulfonyl]-GTP
 can be restored. After reconstitution into vesicles, Cl−
 but no H+ are transported. The addition of CoQ initiates
 H+ transport in conjunction with fatty acids. This increase
 is fully sensitive to nucleotides. The rates are as high as with
 reconstituted UCP1 from mitochondria. Maximum activity is at a molar
 ratio of 1:300 of CoQ:phospholipid. In UCP2 as in UCP1, ATP is a
 stronger inhibitor than ADP, but in UCP3 ADP inhibits more strongly
 than ATP. Thus UCP2 and UCP3 are regulated differently by nucleotides,
 in line with their different physiological contexts. These results
 confirm the regulation of UCP2 and UCP3 by the same factors CoQ, fatty
 acids, and nucleotides as UCP1. They supersede reports that UCP2 and
 UCP3 may not be H+ transporters.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Krüppel-associated box (KRAB) domain, originally
 identified as a 75-aa sequence present in numerous Krüppel-type
 zinc-finger proteins, is a potent DNA-binding-dependent transcriptional
 repression domain that is believed to function through interaction with
 the transcriptional intermediary factor 1 (TIF1) β. On the basis of
 sequence comparison and phylogenetic analysis, we have recently defined
 three distinct subfamilies of KRAB domains. In the present study,
 individual members of each subfamily were tested for transcriptional
 repression and interaction with TIF1β and two other closely related
 family members (TIF1α and TIF1γ). All KRAB variants were shown,
 (i) to repress transcription when targeted to DNA
 through fusion to a heterologous DNA-binding domain in mammalian cells,
 and (ii) to interact specifically with TIF1β, but not
 with TIF1α or TIF1γ. Taken together, these results implicate
 TIF1β as a common transcriptional corepressor for the three distinct
 subfamilies of KRAB zinc-finger proteins and suggest a high degree of
 conservation in the molecular mechanism underlying their
 transcriptional repression activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cell wall imparts structural strength and shape to bacteria. It
 is made up of polymeric glycan chains with peptide branches that are
 cross-linked to form the cell wall. The cross-linking reaction,
 catalyzed by transpeptidases, is the last step in cell wall
 biosynthesis. These enzymes are members of the family of
 penicillin-binding proteins, the targets of β-lactam antibiotics. We
 report herein the structure of a penicillin-binding protein complexed
 with a cephalosporin designed to probe the mechanism of the
 cross-linking reaction catalyzed by transpeptidases. The 1.2-Å
 resolution x-ray structure of this cephalosporin bound to the active
 site of the bifunctional serine type
 d-alanyl-d-alanine
 carboxypeptidase/transpeptidase (EC 3.4.16.4) from
 Streptomyces sp. strain R61 reveals how the two peptide
 strands from the polymeric substrates are sequestered in the active
 site of a transpeptidase. The structure of this complex provides a
 snapshot of the enzyme and the bound cell wall components poised for
 the final and critical cross-linking step of cell wall biosynthesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Zinc finger domains are perhaps the most versatile of all known DNA
 binding domains. By fusing up to six zinc finger modules, which
 normally recognize up to 18 bp of DNA, designer transcription factors
 can be produced to target unique sequences within large genomes.
 However, not all continuous DNA sequences make good zinc finger binding
 sites. To avoid having to target unfavorable DNA sequences, we designed
 multizinc finger peptides with linkers capable of spanning long
 stretches of nonbound DNA. Two three-finger domains were fused by using
 either transcription factor IIIA for the Xenopus 5S RNA
 gene (TFIIIA) finger 4 or a non-sequence-specific zinc finger as a
 “structured” linker. Our gel-shift results demonstrate that these
 peptides are able to bind with picomolar affinities to target sequences
 containing 0–10 bp of nonbound DNA. Furthermore, these peptides
 display greater sequence selectivity and bind with higher affinity than
 similar six-finger peptides containing long, flexible linkers. These
 peptides are likely to be of use in understanding the behavior of
 polydactyl proteins in nature and in the targeting of human, animal, or
 plant genomes for numerous applications. We also suggest that in
 certain polydactyl peptides an individual finger can “flip” out
 of the major groove to allow its neighbors to bind shorter, nontarget
 DNA sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multizinc finger peptides are likely to reach increased prominence
 in the search for the “ideal” designer transcription factor for
 in vivo applications such as gene therapy. However, for
 these treatments to be effective and safe, the peptides must bind with
 high affinity and, more importantly, with great specificity. Our
 previous research has shown that zinc finger arrays can be made to bind
 18 bp of DNA with picomolar affinity, but also has suggested that
 arrays of fingers also may bind tightly to related sequences. This work
 addresses the question of zinc finger DNA binding specificity. We show
 that by changing the way in which zinc finger arrays are
 constructed—by linking three two-finger domains rather than two
 three-finger units—far greater target specificity can be achieved
 through increased discrimination against mutated or closely related
 sequences. These new peptides have the added capability of being able
 to span two short gaps of unbound DNA, although still binding with
 picomolar affinity to their target sites. We believe that this new
 method of constructing zinc finger arrays will offer greater efficacy
 in the fields of gene therapy and in the production of transgenic
 organisms than previously reported zinc finger arrays.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report here the crystal structure of the RuvB motor protein from
 Thermus thermophilus HB8, which drives branch migration
 of the Holliday junction during homologous recombination. RuvB has a
 crescent-like architecture consisting of three consecutive domains, the
 first two of which are involved in ATP binding and hydrolysis. DNA is
 likely to interact with a large basic cleft, which encompasses the
 ATP-binding pocket and domain boundaries, whereas the
 junction-recognition protein RuvA may bind a flexible β-hairpin
 protruding from the N-terminal domain. The structures of two subunits,
 related by a noncrystallographic pseudo-2-fold axis, imply that
 conformational changes of motor protein coupled with ATP hydrolysis may
 reflect motility essential for its translocation around double-stranded
 DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Na+/Cl−-dependent neurotransmitter
 transporters form a superfamily of transmembrane proteins that share 12
 membrane-spanning regions. To gain information about the quaternary
 structure of these transporter proteins, we heterologously expressed
 the glial glycine transporter GlyT1 and its neuronal homolog GlyT2 in
 Xenopus oocytes. By using metabolic labeling with
 [35S]methionine or surface labeling with a plasma
 membrane impermeable reagent followed by affinity purification, we
 separately analyzed the total cellular pools of newly synthesized GlyTs
 and its functional plasma membrane-bound fractions. Upon blue native
 gel electrophoresis, the surface-localized transporter proteins were
 found to exist exclusively in complex-glycosylated monomeric form,
 whereas a significant fraction of the intracellular GlyT1 and GlyT2 was
 core-glycosylated and oligomeric. In contrast, even after treatment
 with the crosslinker glutaraldehyde, surface GlyTs failed to migrate as
 oligomeric proteins. These results indicate that plasma membrane-bound
 GlyT1 and GlyT2 are monomeric proteins. Thus,
 Na+/Cl−-dependent neurotransmitter
 transporters do not require oligomerization for substrate
 translocation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Here we describe the components of a histone deacetylase (HDAC)
 complex that we term the CoREST-HDAC complex. CoREST-HDAC is composed
 of polypeptides distinct from previously characterized
 HDAC1/2-containing complexes such as the mSin3 and nucleosome
 remodeling and deacetylating (NRD, also named NURD, NuRD) complex.
 Interestingly, we do not observe RbAp46 and RbAp48 in this complex,
 although these proteins have been observed in all previously identified
 complexes and are thought to be part of an HDAC1/2 core. We identify
 the transcriptional corepressor CoREST and a protein with homology to
 polyamine oxidases as components of CoREST-HDAC. The
 HDAC1/2-interacting region of CoREST is mapped to a 179-aa region
 containing a SANT domain, a domain found in other HDAC1/2-interacting
 proteins such as NCoR, MTA1, and MTA2. Furthermore, we demonstrate that
 the corepressor function of CoREST depends on this region. Although
 CoREST initially was cloned as a corepressor to REST (RE1 silencing
 transcription factor/neural restrictive silencing factor), we find no
 evidence for the existence of the eight-zinc finger REST transcription
 factor as an interacting partner in this complex; however, we do find
 evidence for association of the putative oncogene ZNF 217 that
 contains eight zinc fingers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The yeast nonchromosomal gene [URE3] is due to a prion form of
 the nitrogen regulatory protein Ure2p. It is a negative regulator of
 nitrogen catabolism and acts by inhibiting the transcription factor
 Gln3p. Ure2p residues 1–80 are necessary for prion generation and
 propagation. The C-terminal fragment retains nitrogen regulatory
 activity, albeit somewhat less efficiently than the full-length
 protein, and it also lowers the frequency of prion generation. The
 crystal structure of this C-terminal fragment, Ure2p(97–354), at 2.3
 Å resolution is described here. It adopts the same fold as the
 glutathione S-transferase superfamily, consistent with
 their sequence similarity. However, Ure2p(97–354) lacks a properly
 positioned catalytic residue that is required for
 S-transferase activity. Residues within this regulatory
 fragment that have been indicated by mutational studies to influence
 prion generation have been mapped onto the three-dimensional structure,
 and possible implications for prion activity are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have determined the structure of a DEAD box putative RNA
 helicase from the hyperthermophile Methanococcus
 jannaschii. Like other helicases, the protein contains two
 α/β domains, each with a recA-like topology. Unlike other
 helicases, the protein exists as a dimer in the crystal. Through an
 interaction that resembles the dimer interface of insulin, the
 amino-terminal domain's 7-strand β-sheet is extended to 14 strands
 across the two molecules. Motifs conserved in the DEAD box family
 cluster in the cleft between domains, and many of their functions can
 be deduced by mutational data and by comparison with other helicase
 structures. Several lines of evidence suggest that motif III
 Ser-Ala-Thr may be involved in binding RNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sequences that control translation of mRNA may play critical roles
 in regulating protein levels. One such element is the internal ribosome
 entry site (IRES). We previously showed that a 9-nt segment in the 5′
 leader sequence of the mRNA encoding Gtx homeodomain protein could
 function as an IRES. To identify other short sequences with similar
 properties, we designed a selection procedure that uses a retroviral
 vector to express dicistronic mRNAs encoding enhanced green and cyan
 fluorescent proteins as the first and second cistrons, respectively.
 Expression of the second cistron was dependent upon the intercistronic
 sequences and was indicative of IRES activity. B104 cells were infected
 with two retroviral libraries that contained random sequences of 9 or
 18 nt in the intercistronic region. Cells expressing both cistrons were
 sorted, and sequences recovered from selected cells were reassayed for
 IRES activity in a dual luciferase dicistronic mRNA. Two novel IRESes
 were identified by this procedure, and both contained segments with
 complementarity to 18S rRNA. When multiple copies of either segment
 were linked together, IRES activities were dramatically enhanced.
 Moreover, these synthetic IRESes were differentially active in various
 cell types. These properties are similar to those of the previously
 identified 9-nt IRES module from Gtx mRNA. These results provide
 further evidence that short nucleotide sequences can function as IRESes
 and support the idea that some cellular IRESes may be composed of
 shorter functional modules. The ability to identify IRES modules with
 specific expression properties may be useful in the design of vectors
 for biotechnology and gene therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The current paper describes a line of cultured rat hepatoma cells
 (McA-RH7777 cells) that mimics the behavior of rat liver by producing
 an excess of mRNA for sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c
 (SREBP-1c) as opposed to SREBP-1a. These two transcripts are derived
 from a single gene by use of alternative promoters that are separated
 by many kilobases in the genome. The high level of SREBP-1c mRNA is
 abolished when cholesterol synthesis is blocked by compactin, an
 inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA (HMG CoA) reductase that
 inhibits cholesterol synthesis. Levels of SREBP-1c mRNA are restored by
 mevalonate, the product of the HMG CoA reductase reaction, and by
 ligands for the nuclear hormone receptor LXR, including
 22(R)-hydroxycholesterol and T0901317. These data
 suggest that transcription of the SREBP-1c gene in hepatocytes requires
 tonic activation of LXR by an oxysterol intermediate in the cholesterol
 biosynthetic pathway. Reduction of this intermediate lowers SREBP-1c
 levels, and this in turn is predicted to lower the rates of fatty acid
 biosynthesis in liver.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A minor Hsp70 chaperone of the mitochondrial matrix of
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Ssq1, is involved in the
 formation or repair of Fe/S clusters and/or mitochondrial iron
 metabolism. Here, we report evidence that Jac1, a J-type chaperone of
 the mitochondrial matrix, is the partner of Ssq1 in this process.
 Reduced activity of Jac1 results in a decrease in activity of Fe/S
 containing mitochondrial proteins and an accumulation of iron in
 mitochondria. Fe/S enzyme activities remain low in both
 jac1 and ssq1 mutant mitochondria even if
 normal mitochondrial iron levels are maintained. Therefore, the low
 activities observed are not solely due to oxidative damage caused by
 excess iron. Rather, these molecular chaperones likely play a direct
 role in the normal assembly process of Fe/S clusters.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ribozymes of hepatitis delta virus have been proposed to use
 an active-site cytosine as an acid-base catalyst in the self-cleavage
 reaction. In this study, we have examined the role of cytosine in more
 detail with the antigenomic ribozyme. Evidence that proton transfer in
 the rate-determining step involved cytosine 76 (C76) was obtained from
 examining cleavage activity of the wild-type and imidazole
 buffer-rescued C76-deleted (C76Δ) ribozymes in D2O and
 H2O. In both reactions, a similar kinetic isotope effect
 and shift in the apparent pKa indicate that the buffer is functionally
 substituting for the side chain in proton transfer. Proton inventory of
 the wild-type reaction supported a mechanism of a single proton
 transfer at the transition state. This proton transfer step was further
 characterized by exogenous base rescue of a C76Δ mutant with cytosine
 and imidazole analogues. For the imidazole analogues that rescued
 activity, the apparent pKa of the rescue reaction, measured under
 kcat/KM
 conditions, correlated with the pKa of the base. From these data a
 Brønsted coefficient (β) of 0.51 was determined for the base-rescued
 reaction of C76Δ. This value is consistent with that expected for
 proton transfer in the transition state. Together, these data provide
 strong support for a mechanism where an RNA side chain participates
 directly in general acid or general base catalysis of the wild-type
 ribozyme to facilitate RNA cleavage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ASH1 encodes a protein that is localized
 specifically to the daughter cell nucleus, where it has been proposed
 to repress transcription of the HO gene. Using Ash1p
 purified from baculovirus-infected insect cells, we have shown that
 Ash1p binds specific DNA sequences in the HO promoter.
 DNase I protection analyses showed that Ash1p recognizes a consensus
 sequence, YTGAT. Mutation of this consensus abolishes Ash1p DNA binding
 in vitro. We have shown that Ash1p requires an intact
 zinc-binding domain in its C terminus for repression of HO in
 vivo and that this domain may be involved in DNA binding. A
 heterologous DNA-binding domain fused to an N-terminal segment of Ash1p
 functions as an active repressor of transcription. Our studies indicate
 that Ash1p is a DNA-binding protein of the GATA family with a separable
 transcriptional repression domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The early steps in the biosynthesis of Taxol involve the
 cyclization of geranylgeranyl diphosphate to taxa-4(5),11(12)-diene
 followed by cytochrome P450-mediated hydroxylation at C5, acetylation
 of this intermediate, and a second cytochrome P450-dependent
 hydroxylation at C10 to yield taxadien-5α-acetoxy-10β-ol.
 Subsequent steps of the pathway involve additional cytochrome P450
 catalyzed oxygenations and CoA-dependent acylations. The limited
 feasibility of reverse genetic cloning of cytochrome P450 oxygenases
 led to the use of Taxus cell cultures induced for Taxol
 production and the development of an approach based on differential
 display of mRNA-reverse transcription-PCR, which ultimately provided
 full-length forms of 13 unique but closely related cytochrome P450
 sequences. Functional expression of these enzymes in yeast was
 monitored by in situ spectrophotometry coupled to
 in vivo screening of oxygenase activity by feeding
 taxoid substrates. This strategy yielded a family of
 taxoid-metabolizing enzymes and revealed the taxane 10β-hydroxylase
 as a 1494-bp cDNA that encodes a 498-residue cytochrome P450 capable of
 transforming taxadienyl acetate to the 10β-hydroxy derivative; the
 identity of this latter pathway intermediate was confirmed by
 chromatographic and spectrometric means. The 10β-hydroxylase
 represents the initial cytochrome P450 gene of Taxol biosynthesis to be
 isolated by an approach that should provide access to the remaining
 oxygenases of the pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Complexes between the quorum-sensing regulator TraR and its
 inducing ligand autoinducer (AAI) are soluble in Escherichia
 coli, whereas apo-TraR is almost completely insoluble. Here we
 show that the lack of soluble TraR is due in large part to rapid
 proteolysis, inasmuch as apo-TraR accumulated to high levels in an
 E. coli strain deficient in Clp and Lon proteases. In
 pulse labeling experiments, AAI protected TraR against proteolysis only
 when it was added before the radiolabel. This observation indicates
 that TraR proteins can productively bind AAI only during their own
 synthesis on polysomes, whereas fully synthesized apo-TraR proteins are
 not functional AAI receptors. Purified apo-TraR was rapidly degraded by
 trypsin to oligopeptides, whereas TraR–AAI complexes were more
 resistant to trypsin and were cleaved at discrete interdomain linkers,
 indicating that TraR requires AAI to attain its mature tertiary
 structure. TraR–AAI complexes eluted from a gel filtration column as
 dimers and bound DNA as dimers. In contrast, apo-TraR was monomeric,
 and incubation with AAI under a variety of conditions did not cause
 dimerization. We conclude that AAI is critical for the folding of
 nascent TraR protein into its mature tertiary structure and that
 full-length apo-TraR cannot productively bind AAI and is consequently
 targeted for rapid proteolysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Trypanosoma brucei, the protozoan parasite causing
 sleeping sickness, is transmitted by a tsetse fly vector. When the
 tsetse takes a blood meal from an infected human, it ingests
 bloodstream form trypanosomes that quickly differentiate into procyclic
 forms within the fly's midgut. During this process, the parasite loses
 the 107 molecules of variant surface glycoprotein that
 formed its surface coat, and it develops a new coat composed of several
 million procyclin molecules. Procyclins, the products of a small
 multigene family, are glycosyl phosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins
 containing characteristic amino acid repeats at the C terminus [either
 EP (EP procyclin, a form of procyclin rich in Glu-Pro repeats) or GPEET
 (GPEET procyclin, a form of procyclin rich in Glu-Pro-Glu-Glu-Thr
 repeats)]. We have used a sensitive and accurate mass spectrometry
 method to analyze the appearance of different procyclins during the
 establishment of midgut infections in tsetse flies. We found that
 different procyclin gene products are expressed in an orderly manner.
 Early in the infection (day 3), GPEET2 is the only procyclin detected.
 By day 7, however, GPEET2 disappears and is replaced by several
 isoforms of glycosylated EP, but not the unglycosylated isoform EP2.
 Unexpectedly, we discovered that the N-terminal domains of all
 procyclins are quantitatively removed by proteolysis in the fly, but
 not in culture. These findings suggest that one function of the
 protease-resistant C-terminal domain, containing the amino acid
 repeats, is to protect the parasite surface from digestive enzymes in
 the tsetse fly gut.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The E2F transcription factors play a key role in the regulation of
 cellular proliferation and terminal differentiation. E2F6 is the most
 recently identified and the least well understood member of the E2F
 family. It is only distantly related to the other E2Fs and lacks the
 sequences responsible for both transactivation and binding to the
 retinoblastoma protein. Consistent with this finding, E2F6 can behave
 as a dominant negative inhibitor of the other E2F family members. In
 this study, we continue to investigate the possible role(s) of E2F6
 in vivo. We report the isolation of RYBP, a recently
 identified member of the mammalian polycomb complex, as an
 E2F6-interacting protein. Mapping studies indicate that RYBP binds
 within the known “repression domain” of E2F6. Moreover, we
 demonstrate that endogenous E2F6 and polycomb group
 proteins, including RYBP, Ring1, MEL-18, mph1, and the oncoprotein
 Bmi1, associate with one another. These findings suggest that the
 biological properties of E2F6 are mediated through its ability to
 recruit the polycomb transcriptional repressor complex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
High-affinity uptake into bacterial cells is mediated by a large
 class of periplasmic binding protein-dependent transport systems,
 members of the ATP-binding cassette superfamily. In the maltose
 transport system of Escherichia coli, the periplasmic
 maltose-binding protein binds its substrate maltose with high affinity
 and, in addition, stimulates the ATPase activity of the
 membrane-associated transporter when maltose is present. Vanadate
 inhibits maltose transport by trapping ADP in one of the two
 nucleotide-binding sites of the membrane transporter immediately after
 ATP hydrolysis, consistent with its ability to mimic the transition
 state of the γ-phosphate of ATP during hydrolysis. Here we report
 that the maltose-binding protein becomes tightly associated with the
 membrane transporter in the presence of vanadate and simultaneously
 loses its high affinity for maltose. These results suggest a general
 model explaining how ATP hydrolysis is coupled to substrate transport
 in which a binding protein stimulates the ATPase activity of its
 cognate transporter by stabilizing the transition state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In higher eukaryotes, translation of some mRNAs occurs by
 internal initiation. It is not known, however, whether this mechanism
 is used to initiate the translation of any yeast mRNAs. In this report,
 we identify naturally occurring nucleotide sequences that function as
 internal ribosome entry sites (IRESes) within the 5′ leader sequences
 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae YAP1 and p150 mRNAs. When
 tested in the 5′ untranslated regions of monocistronic reporter genes,
 both leader sequences enhanced translation efficiency in vegetatively
 growing yeast cells. Moreover, when tested in the intercistronic region
 of dicistronic mRNAs, both sequences were shown to contain IRESes that
 functioned in living cells. The activity of the p150 leader was much
 greater than that of the YAP1 leader. The second cistron was not
 expressed in control dicistronic constructs that lacked these sequences
 or contained the 5′ leader sequence of the CLN3 mRNA in the
 intercistronic region. Further analyses of the p150 IRES revealed that
 it contained several nonoverlapping segments that were able
 independently to mediate internal initiation. These results suggested a
 modular composition for the p150 IRES that resembled the composition of
 IRESes contained within some cellular mRNAs of higher eukaryotes. Both
 YAP1 and p150 leaders contain several complementary sequence matches to
 yeast 18S rRNA. The findings are discussed in terms of our
 understanding of internal initiation in higher eukaryotes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The regulatory domain of phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH, EC
 1.14.16.1) consists of more than 100 amino acids at the N terminus, the
 removal of which significantly activates the enzyme. To study the
 regulatory properties controlled by the N terminus, a series of
 truncations and site-specific mutations were made in this region of rat
 PAH. These enzymes were expressed highly in Escherichia
 coli and purified through a pterin-conjugated Sepharose
 affinity column. The removal of the first 26 amino acids of the N
 terminus increased the activity by about 20-fold, but removal of the
 first 15 amino acids increased the activity by only 2-fold.
 Replacing serine-29 of rat PAH with cysteine from the same site of
 human PAH increased the activity by more than 4-fold. Mutation of
 serine to other amino acids with varying side chains: alanine,
 methionine, leucine, aspartic acid, asparagine, and arginine also
 resulted in significant activation, indicating a serine-specific
 inhibitory effect. But these site-specific mutants showed 30–40%
 lower activity when assayed with 6-methyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropterin.
 Stimulation of hydroxylase activity by preincubation of the enzyme with
 phenylalanine was inversely proportional to the activation state of all
 these mutants. Combined with recent crystal structures of PAH [Kobe,
 B. et al. (1999) Nat. Struct. Biol. 6,
 442–448; and Erlandsen, H., Bjorgo, E., Flatmark, T. & Stevens,
 R. C. (2000) Biochemistry 39, 2208–2217], these
 data suggest that residues 16–26 have a controlling regulatory effect
 on the activity by interaction with the dihydroxypropyl side chain of
 (6R)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin. The serine/cysteine switch explains
 the difference in regulatory properties between human and rat PAH. The
 N terminus as a whole is important for maintaining rat PAH in an
 optimum catalytic conformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stats1 and 3 (signal transducers and activators of transcription)
 can be activated simultaneously, although not necessarily to the same
 degree or duration, by the interaction of cells with the same
 polypeptide ligand (EGF, PDGF, or high concentrations of IL-6, for
 example). However, these two Stat proteins can mediate opposing effects
 on cell growth and survival. Stat1 activation slows growth and promotes
 apoptosis. In contrast, activated Stat3 can protect cells from
 apoptosis. Furthermore, a constitutively active form of Stat3,
 Stat3-C (bridged by S-S linkages between cysteines instead of
 phosphotyrosines) can induce cellular transformation of fibroblasts. We
 have determined that fibroblasts transformed by Stat3-C are more
 resistant to proapoptotic stimuli than nontransformed cells.
 Also, to examine the potential opposing roles in apoptosis of
 Stat1 and Stat3, we studied the cervical carcinoma-derived cell line,
 Me180, which undergoes Stat1-dependent, IFNγ-induced
 apoptosis. Me180 cells that express Stat3-C are protected
 against IFNγ-mediated apoptosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ultraspiracle (USP) is the invertebrate homologue of the
 mammalian retinoid X receptor (RXR). RXR plays a uniquely important
 role in differentiation, development, and homeostasis through its
 ability to serve as a heterodimeric partner to many other nuclear
 receptors. RXR is able to influence the activity of its partner
 receptors through the action of the ligand 9-cis
 retinoic acid. In contrast to RXR, USP has no known high-affinity
 ligand and is thought to be a silent component in the heterodimeric
 complex with partner receptors such as the ecdysone receptor. Here we
 report the 2.4-Å crystal structure of the USP ligand-binding domain.
 The structure shows that a conserved sequence motif found in dipteran
 and lepidopteran USPs, but not in mammalian RXRs, serves to lock USP in
 an inactive conformation. It also shows that USP has a large
 hydrophobic cavity, implying that there is almost certainly a natural
 ligand for USP. This cavity is larger than that seen previously for
 most other nuclear receptors. Intriguingly, this cavity has partial
 occupancy by a bound lipid, which is likely to resemble the natural
 ligand for USP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The halobacterial phototaxis receptors sensory rhodopsin I and II
 (SRI, SRII) enable the bacteria to seek optimal light conditions for
 ion pumping by bacteriorhodopsin and/or
 halorhodopsin. The incoming signal is transferred across the plasma
 membrane by means of receptor-specific transducer proteins that bind
 tightly to their corresponding photoreceptors. To investigate the
 receptor/transducer interaction, advantage is taken of the
 observation that both SRI and SRII can function as proton pumps. SRI
 from Halobacterium salinarum, which triggers the
 positive phototaxis, the photophobic receptor SRII from
 Natronobacterium pharaonis (pSRII), as well as the
 mutant pSRII-F86D were expressed in Xenopus oocytes.
 Voltage-clamp studies confirm that SRI and pSRII function as
 light-driven, outwardly directed proton pumps with a much stronger
 voltage dependence than the ion pumps
 bacteriorhodopsin and halorhodopsin. Coexpression
 of SRI and pSRII-F86D with their corresponding transducers suppresses
 the proton transport, revealing a tight binding and specific
 interaction of the two proteins. These latter results may be exploited
 to further analyze the binding interaction of the photoreceptors with
 their downstream effectors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Generation of nanomechanical cantilever motion from biomolecular
 interactions can have wide applications, ranging from high-throughput
 biomolecular detection to bioactuation. Although it has been suggested
 that such motion is caused by changes in surface stress of a cantilever
 beam, the origin of the surface-stress change has so far not been
 elucidated. By using DNA hybridization experiments, we show that the
 origin of motion lies in the interplay between changes in
 configurational entropy and intermolecular energetics induced by
 specific biomolecular interactions. By controlling entropy change
 during DNA hybridization, the direction of cantilever motion can be
 manipulated. These thermodynamic principles were also used to explain
 the origin of motion generated from protein–ligand binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) mediate cell attachment and stress
 transfer through extracellular domains. Here we forcibly unfold the Ig
 domains of a prototypical Ig superfamily CAM that contains intradomain
 disulfide bonds. The Ig domains of all such CAMs have conformations
 homologous to cadherin extracellular domains, titin Ig-type domains,
 and fibronectin type-III (FNIII) domains. Atomic force microscopy has
 been used to extend the five Ig domains of Mel-CAM (melanoma CAM)—a
 protein that is overexpressed in metastatic melanomas—under conditions
 where the disulfide bonds were either left intact or disrupted through
 reduction. Under physiological conditions where intradomain disulfide
 bonds are intact, partial unfolding was observed at forces far smaller
 than those reported previously for either titin's Ig-type domains or
 tenascin's FNIII domains. This partial unfolding under low force may
 be an important mechanism for imparting elasticity to cell–cell
 contacts, as well as a regulatory mechanism for adhesive interactions.
 Under reducing conditions, Mel-CAM's Ig domains were found to fully
 unfold through a partially folded state and at slightly higher forces.
 The results suggest that, in divergent evolution of all such domains,
 stabilization imparted by disulfide bonds relaxes requirements for
 strong, noncovalent, folded-state interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Unidirectional proton transport in
 bacteriorhodopsin is enforced by the switching
 machinery of the active site. Threonine 89 is located in this region,
 with its O—H group forming a hydrogen bond with Asp-85, the acceptor
 for proton transfer from the Schiff base of the retinal chromophore.
 Previous IR spectroscopy of [3-18O]threonine-labeled
 bacteriorhodopsin showed that the hydrogen bond of
 the O—D group of Thr-89 in D2O is strengthened in the K
 photocycle intermediate. Here, we show that the strength and
 orientation of this hydrogen bond remains unchanged in the L
 intermediate and through the M intermediate. Furthermore, a strong
 interaction between Asp-85 and the O—H (O—D) group of Thr-89 in M
 is indicated by a shift in the C⩵O stretching vibration of the former
 because of 18O substitution in the latter. Thus, the strong
 hydrogen bond between Asp-85 and Thr-89 in K persists through M,
 contrary to structural models based on x-ray crystallography of the
 photocycle intermediates. We propose that, upon photoisomerization of
 the chromophore, Thr-89 forms a tight, persistent complex with one of
 the side-chain oxygens of Asp-85 and is thereby precluded from
 participating in the switching process. On the other hand, the loss of
 hydrogen bonding at the other oxygen of Asp-85 in M may be related to
 the switching event.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intracellular water concentrations in single living cells were
 visualized by nonlinear coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS)
 microscopy. In combination with isotopic exchange measurements, CARS
 microscopy allowed the real-time observation of transient intracellular
 hydrodynamics at a high spatial resolution. Studies of the
 hydrodynamics in the microorganism Dictyostelium
 discoideum indicated the presence of a microscopic region near
 the plasma membrane where the mobility of water molecules is severely
 restricted. Modeling the transient hydrodynamics eventuated in the
 determination of cell-specific cytosolic diffusion and plasma membrane
 permeability constants. Our experiments demonstrate that CARS
 microscopy offers an invaluable tool for probing single-cell water
 dynamics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
von Hippel–Lindau (VHL) disease is a pleomorphic familial
 tumor syndrome that is characterized by the development of highly
 vascularized tumors. Homozygous disruption of the VHL
 gene in mice results in embryonic lethality. To investigate
 VHL function in the adult we have generated a
 conditional VHL null allele (2-lox
 allele) and null allele (1-lox allele) by Cre-mediated
 recombination in embryonic stem cells. We show here that mice
 heterozygous for the 1-lox allele develop cavernous
 hemangiomas of the liver, a rare manifestation of the human disease.
 Histologically these tumors were associated with hepatocellular
 steatosis and focal proliferations of small vessels. To study the
 cellular origin of these lesions we inactivated VHL
 tissue-specifically in hepatocytes. Deletion of VHL in
 the liver resulted in severe steatosis, many blood-filled vascular
 cavities, and foci of increased vascularization within the hepatic
 parenchyma. These histopathological changes were similar to those seen
 in livers from mice heterozygous for the 1-lox allele.
 Hypoxia-inducible mRNAs encoding vascular endothelial growth factor,
 glucose transporter 1, and erythropoietin were up-regulated. We thus
 provide evidence that targeted inactivation of mouse VHL
 can model clinical features of the human disease and underline the
 importance of the VHL gene product in the regulation of
 hypoxia-responsive genes in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A unique chromosomal translocation involving the genes
 PAX3 and FKHR is characteristic of most
 human alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas. The resultant chimeric protein fuses
 the PAX3 DNA-binding domains to the transactivation domain of FKHR,
 suggesting that PAX3-FKHR exerts its role in alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas
 through dysregulation of PAX3-specific target genes. Here, we have
 produced transgenic mice in which PAX3-FKHR expression was driven by
 mouse Pax3 promoter/enhancer sequences. Five
 independent lines expressed PAX3-FKHR in the dorsal neural tube and
 lateral dermomyotome. Each line exhibited phenotypes that correlated
 with PAX3-FKHR expression levels and predominantly involved pigmentary
 disturbances of the abdomen, hindpaws, and tail, with additional
 neurological related alterations. Phenotypic severity could be
 increased by reducing Pax3 levels through matings with
 Pax3-defective Splotch mice, and
 interference between PAX3 and PAX3-FKHR was apparent in transcription
 reporter assays. These data suggest that the tumor-associated PAX3-FKHR
 fusion protein interferes with normal Pax3 developmental functions as a
 prelude to transformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To better understand the structure and function of Z lines, we used
 sarcomeric isoforms of α-actinin and γ-filamin to screen a human
 skeletal muscle cDNA library for interacting proteins by using the
 yeast two-hybrid system. Here we describe myozenin
 (MYOZ), an α-actinin- and γ-filamin-binding Z line
 protein expressed predominantly in skeletal muscle. Myozenin is
 predicted to be a 32-kDa, globular protein with a central glycine-rich
 domain flanked by α-helical regions with no strong homologies to any
 known genes. The MYOZ gene has six exons and maps to
 human chromosome 10q22.1-q22.2. Northern blot analysis demonstrated
 that this transcript is expressed primarily in skeletal muscle with
 significantly lower levels of expression in several other tissues.
 Antimyozenin antisera stain skeletal muscle in a sarcomeric pattern
 indistinguishable from that seen by using antibodies for α-actinin,
 and immunogold electron microscopy confirms localization specifically
 to Z lines. Thus, myozenin is a skeletal muscle Z line protein that may
 be a good candidate gene for limb-girdle muscular dystrophy or other
 neuromuscular disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The two widely coexpressed isoforms of β-arrestin (termed
 βarrestin 1 and 2) are highly similar in amino acid sequence.
 The β-arrestins bind phosphorylated heptahelical receptors to
 desensitize and target them to clathrin-coated pits for endocytosis. To
 better define differences in the roles of β-arrestin 1 and 2, we
 prepared mouse embryonic fibroblasts from knockout mice that lack one
 of the β-arrestins (βarr1-KO and βarr2-KO) or both
 (βarr1/2-KO), as well as their wild-type (WT) littermate controls.
 These cells were analyzed for their ability to support desensitization
 and sequestration of the β2-adrenergic receptor
 (β2-AR) and the angiotensin II type 1A receptor
 (AT1A-R). Both βarr1-KO and βarr2-KO cells showed
 similar impairment in agonist-stimulated β2-AR and
 AT1A-R desensitization, when compared with their WT control
 cells, and the βarr1/2-KO cells were even further impaired.
 Sequestration of the β2-AR in the βarr2-KO cells was
 compromised significantly (87% reduction), whereas in the βarr1-KO
 cells it was not. Agonist-stimulated internalization of the
 AT1A-R was only slightly reduced in the βarr1-KO but was
 unaffected in the βarr2-KO cells. In the βarr1/2-KO cells, the
 sequestration of both receptors was dramatically reduced. Comparison of
 the ability of the two β-arrestins to sequester the
 β2-AR revealed β-arrestin 2 to be 100-fold more potent
 than β-arrestin 1. Down-regulation of the β2-AR was
 also prevented in the βarr1/2-KO cells, whereas no change was
 observed in the single knockout cells. These findings suggest that
 sequestration of various heptahelical receptors is regulated
 differently by the two β-arrestins, whereas both isoforms are capable
 of supporting receptor desensitization and down-regulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The goal of this study was to determine whether
 β1-adrenergic receptor (AR) and β2-AR
 differ in regulating cardiomyocyte survival and apoptosis and,
 if so, to explore underlying mechanisms. One potential mechanism is
 that cardiac β2-AR can activate both Gs and
 Gi proteins, whereas cardiac β1-AR couples
 only to Gs. To avoid complicated crosstalk between β-AR
 subtypes, we expressed β1-AR or β2-AR
 individually in adult β1/β2-AR
 double knockout mouse cardiac myocytes by using adenoviral gene
 transfer. Stimulation of β1-AR, but not
 β2-AR, markedly induced myocyte apoptosis, as
 indicated by increased terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated
 UTP end labeling or Hoechst staining positive cells and DNA
 fragmentation. In contrast, β2-AR (but not
 β1-AR) stimulation elevated the activity of Akt, a
 powerful survival signal; this effect was fully abolished by inhibiting
 Gi, Gβγ, or phosphoinositide 3
 kinase (PI3K) with pertussis toxin, βARK-ct (a peptide inhibitor of
 Gβγ), or LY294002, respectively. This
 indicates that β2-AR activates Akt via a
 Gi-Gβγ-PI3K pathway. More
 importantly, inhibition of the
 Gi-Gβγ-PI3K-Akt pathway
 converts β2-AR signaling from survival to
 apoptotic. Thus, stimulation of a single class of receptors,
 β2-ARs, elicits concurrent apoptotic and survival
 signals in cardiac myocytes. The survival effect appears to predominate
 and is mediated by the
 Gi-Gβγ-PI3K-Akt signaling
 pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the “selective” cholesteryl ester (CE) uptake process,
 surface-associated lipoproteins [high density lipoprotein (HDL) and
 low density lipoprotein] are trapped in the space formed between
 closely apposed surface microvilli (microvillar channels) in
 hormone-stimulated steroidogenic cells. This is the same location where
 an HDL receptor (SR-BI) is found. In the current study, we sought to
 understand the relationship between SR-BI and selective CE uptake in a
 heterologous insect cell system. Sf9 (Spodoptera
 frugiperda) cells overexpressing recombinant SR-BI were
 examined for (i) SR-BI protein by Western blot analysis
 and light or electron immunomicroscopy, and (ii)
 selective lipoprotein CE uptake by the use of radiolabeled or
 fluorescent (BODIPY-CE)-labeled HDL. Noninfected or infected control
 Sf9 cells do not express SR-BI, show microvillar
 channels, or internalize CEs. An unexpected finding was the induction
 of a complex channel system in Sf9 cells expressing
 SR-BI. SR-BI-expressing cells showed many cell surface double-membraned
 channels, immunogold SR-BI, apolipoprotein (HDL) labeling of the
 channels, and high levels of selective HDL-CE uptake. Thus,
 double-membraned channels can be induced by expression of recombinant
 SR-BI in a heterologous system, and these specialized structures
 facilitate both the binding of HDL and selective HDL-CE uptake.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The p53 tumor suppressor protein and the MDM2 oncoprotein form a
 feedback-control loop that up-regulates cellular MDM2 production,
 blocks p53 activity, and promotes p53 decay. tsg101 was
 discovered as a gene whose deficiency results in neoplastic
 transformation of NIH 3T3 cells and the ability to generate metastatic
 tumors in nude mice. Its protein product contains a domain, Ubc,
 characteristic of the catalytic domain of ubiquitin conjugase (E2)
 enzymes but lacking an active-site cysteine crucial for ubiquitin
 conjugase activity. Here we report that TSG101 participates with MDM2
 in an autoregulatory loop that modulates the cellular levels of both
 proteins, and also of p53, by affecting protein decay. We show that the
 Ubc domain of TSG101 interferes with ubiquitination of MDM2, that
 TSG101 inhibits MDM2 decay and elevates its steady-state level, and
 that these events are associated with down-regulation of p53 protein.
 Conversely, pulse–chase and Western blot experiments in wild-type and
 mutant fibroblasts indicate that elevation of MDM2 by overexpression of
 wild-type p53, by amplification of the endogenous
 MDM2 gene, or by transfection of MDM2-expressing
 constructs promotes TSG101 loss, which we show occurs by 26S
 proteasome-dependent decay. Our results identify TSG101 as both a
 regulator of, and target of, MDM2/p53 circuitry.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Glycolipid glycosyltransferases catalyze the stepwise transfer of
 monosaccharides from sugar nucleotides to proper glycolipid acceptors.
 They are Golgi resident proteins that colocalize functionally in the
 organelle, but their intimate relationships are not known. Here, we
 show that the sequentially acting
 UDP-GalNAc:lactosylceramide/GM3/GD3
 β-1,4-N-acetyl-galactosaminyltransferase and the
 UDP-Gal:GA2/GM2/GD2 β-1,3-galactosyltransferase associate
 physically in the distal Golgi. Immunoprecipitation of the respective
 epitope-tagged versions expressed in transfected CHO-K1 cells resulted
 in their mutual coimmunoprecipitation. The immunocomplexes efficiently
 catalyze the two transfer steps leading to the synthesis of GM1 from
 exogenous GM3 in the presence of UDP-GalNAc and UDP-Gal. The N-terminal
 domains (cytosolic tail, transmembrane domain, and few amino acids of
 the stem region) of both enzymes are involved in the interaction
 because (i) they reproduce the coimmunoprecipitation
 behavior of the full-length enzymes, (ii) they compete with
 the full-length counterpart in both coimmunoprecipitation and GM1
 synthesis experiments, and (iii) fused to the cyan and
 yellow fluorescent proteins, they localize these proteins to the Golgi
 membranes in an association close enough as to allow fluorescence
 resonance energy transfer between them. We suggest that these
 associations may improve the efficiency of glycolipid synthesis by
 channeling the intermediates from the position of product to the
 position of acceptor along the transfer steps.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Oxidants generated by eosinophils during chronic inflammation may
 lead to mutagenesis in adjacent epithelial cells. Eosinophil
 peroxidase, a heme enzyme released by eosinophils, generates
 hypobromous acid that damages tissue in inflammatory conditions. We
 show that human eosinophils use eosinophil peroxidase to produce
 5-bromodeoxycytidine. Flow cytometric, immunohistochemical, and mass
 spectrometric analyses all demonstrated that 5-bromodeoxycytidine
 generated by eosinophil peroxidase was taken up by cultured cells and
 incorporated into genomic DNA as 5-bromodeoxyuridine. Although previous
 studies have focused on oxidation of chromosomal DNA, our observations
 suggest another mechanism for oxidative damage of DNA. In this
 scenario, peroxidase-catalyzed halogenation of nucleotide precursors
 yields products that subsequently can be incorporated into DNA. Because
 the thymine analog 5-BrUra mispairs with guanine in DNA, generation of
 brominated pyrimidines by eosinophils might constitute a mechanism for
 cytotoxicity and mutagenesis at sites of inflammation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The small GTPase Rab4 is implicated in endocytosis in all cell
 types, but also plays a specific role in some regulated processes. To
 better understand the role of Rab4 in regulation of vesicular
 trafficking, we searched for an effector(s) that specifically
 recognizes its GTP-bound form. We cloned a ubiquitous 69-kDa protein,
 Rabip4, that behaves as a Rab4 effector in the yeast two-hybrid system
 and in the mammalian cell. Rabip4 contains two coiled-coil domains and
 a FYVE-finger domain. When expressed in CHO cells, Rabip4 is present in
 early endosomes, because it is colocated with endogenous
 Early Endosome Antigen 1, although it is absent from Rab11-positive
 recycling endosomes and Rab-7 positive late endosomes. The coexpression
 of Rabip4 with active Rab4, but not with inactive Rab4, leads to an
 enlargement of early endosomes. It strongly increases the degree of
 colocalization of markers of sorting (Rab5) and recycling (Rab11)
 endosomes with Rab4. Furthermore, the expression of Rabip4 leads to the
 intracellular retention of a recycling molecule, the glucose
 transporter Glut 1. We propose that Rabip4, an effector of Rab4,
 controls early endosomal traffic possibly by activating a backward
 transport step from recycling to sorting endosomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although arsenic is a well-established human carcinogen, the
 mechanisms by which it induces cancer remain poorly understood. We
 previously showed arsenite to be a potent mutagen in human–hamster
 hybrid (AL) cells, and that it induces predominantly
 multilocus deletions. We show here by confocal scanning microscopy with
 the fluorescent probe
 5′,6′-chloromethyl-2′,7′-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate that
 arsenite induces, within 5 min after treatment, a dose-dependent
 increase of up to 3-fold in intracellular oxyradical production.
 Concurrent treatment of cells with arsenite and the radical scavenger
 DMSO reduced the fluorescent intensity to control levels. ESR
 spectroscopy with 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-hydroxypiperidine
 (TEMPOL-H) as a probe in conjunction with superoxide dismutase and
 catalase to quench superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide,
 respectively, indicates that arsenite increases the levels of
 superoxide-driven hydroxyl radicals in these cells. Furthermore,
 reducing the intracellular levels of nonprotein sulfhydryls (mainly
 glutathione) in AL cells with buthionine S-R-sulfoximine
 increases the mutagenic potential of arsenite by more than 5-fold. The
 data are consistent with our previous results with the radical
 scavenger DMSO, which reduced the mutagenicity of arsenic in these
 cells, and provide convincing evidence that reactive oxygen species,
 particularly hydroxyl radicals, play an important causal role in the
 genotoxicity of arsenical compounds in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
During retinogenesis, the Xenopus basic
 helix–loop–helix transcription factor Xath5 has been shown to promote
 a ganglion cell fate. In the developing mouse and chicken retinas, gene
 targeting and overexpression studies have demonstrated critical roles
 for the Brn3 POU domain transcription factor genes in
 the promotion of ganglion cell differentiation. However, the genetic
 relationship between Ath5 and Brn3 genes
 is unknown. To understand the genetic regulatory network(s) that
 controls retinal ganglion cell development, we analyzed the
 relationship between Ath5 and Brn3 genes
 by using a gain-of-function approach in the chicken embryo. We found
 that during retinogenesis, the chicken Ath5 gene
 (Cath5) is expressed in retinal progenitors and in
 differentiating ganglion cells but is absent in terminally
 differentiated ganglion cells. Forced expression of both
 Cath5 and the mouse Ath5 gene
 (Math5) in retinal progenitors activates the expression
 of cBrn3c following central-to-peripheral and
 temporal-to-nasal gradients. As a result, similar to the Xath5 protein,
 both Cath5 and Math5 proteins have the ability to promote the
 development of ganglion cells. Moreover, we found that forced
 expression of all three Brn3 genes also can stimulate
 the expression of cBrn3c. We further found that Ath5 and
 Brn3 proteins are capable of transactivating a Brn3b
 promoter. Thus, these data suggest that the expression of
 cBrn3c in the chicken and Brn3b in the
 mouse is initially activated by Ath5 factors in newly generated
 ganglion cells and later maintained by a feedback loop of Brn3 factors
 in the differentiated ganglion cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human preimplantation embryos exhibit high levels of
 apoptotic cells and high rates of developmental arrest during
 the first week in vitro. The relation between the two is
 unclear and difficult to determine by conventional experimental
 approaches, partly because of limited numbers of embryos. We apply a
 mixture of experiment and mathematical modeling to show that observed
 levels of cell death can be reconciled with the high levels of embryo
 arrest seen in the human only if the developmental competence of
 embryos is already established at the zygote stage, and environmental
 factors merely modulate this. This suggests that research on improving
 in vitro fertilization success rates should move from
 its current concentration on optimizing culture media to focus more on
 the generation of a healthy zygote and on understanding the mechanisms
 that cause chromosomal and other abnormalities during early cleavage
 stages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Advanced eusociality sometimes is given credit for the ecological
 success of termites, ants, some wasps, and some bees. Comprehensive
 study of bees fossilized in Baltic amber has revealed an unsuspected
 middle Eocene (ca. 45 million years ago) diversity of
 eusocial bee lineages. Advanced eusociality arose once in the bees with
 significant post-Eocene losses in diversity, leaving today only two
 advanced eusocial tribes comprising less than 2% of the total bee
 diversity, a trend analogous to that of hominid evolution. This pattern
 of changing diversity contradicts notions concerning the role of
 eusociality for evolutionary success in insects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gnathostome vertebrates have multiple members of the
 Dlx family of transcription factors that are expressed
 during the development of several tissues considered to be vertebrate
 synapomorphies, including the forebrain, cranial neural crest,
 placodes, and pharyngeal arches. The Dlx gene family
 thus presents an ideal system in which to examine the relationship
 between gene duplication and morphological innovation during vertebrate
 evolution. Toward this end, we have cloned Dlx genes
 from the lamprey Petromyzon marinus, an agnathan
 vertebrate that occupies a critical phylogenetic position between
 cephalochordates and gnathostomes. We have identified four
 Dlx genes in P. marinus, whose orthology
 with gnathostome Dlx genes provides a model for how this
 gene family evolved in the vertebrate lineage. Differential expression
 of these lamprey Dlx genes in the forebrain, cranial
 neural crest, pharyngeal arches, and sensory placodes of lamprey
 embryos provides insight into the developmental evolution of these
 structures as well as a model of regulatory evolution after
 Dlx gene duplication events.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Because of their distinctive roles in reproduction, females and
 males are selected toward different optimal phenotypes. Ontogenetic
 conflict between the sexes arises when homologous traits are selected
 in different directions. The evolution of sexual dimorphism by
 sex-limited gene expression alleviates this problem. However, because
 the majority of genes are not sex-limited, the potential for
 substantial conflict may remain. Here we assess the degree of
 ontogenetic conflict in the fruit-fly, Drosophila
 melanogaster, by cloning 40 haploid genomes and measuring their
 Darwinian fitness in both sexes. The intersexual genetic correlations
 for juvenile viability, adult reproductive success, and total fitness
 were used to gauge potential conflict during development. First, as
 juveniles, where the fitness objectives of the two sexes appear to be
 similar, survival was strongly positively correlated across sexes.
 Second, after adult maturation, where gender roles diverge, a
 significant negative correlation for reproductive success was found.
 Finally, because of counterbalancing correlations in the juvenile and
 adult components, no intersexual correlation for total fitness was
 found. Highly significant genotype-by-gender interaction variance was
 measured for both adult and total fitness. These results demonstrate
 strong intersexual discord during development because of the expression
 of sexually antagonistic variation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ATM gene is mutated in the syndrome of ataxia telangiectasia
 (AT), associated with neurologic dysfunction, growth abnormalities, and
 extreme radiosensitivity. Insulin-like growth factor-I receptor
 (IGF-IR) is a cell surface receptor with tyrosine kinase activity that
 can mediate mitogenesis, cell transformation, and inhibition of
 apoptosis. We report here that AT cells express low levels of
 IGF-IR and show decreased IGF-IR promoter activity compared with
 wild-type cells. Complementation of AT cells with the ATM cDNA results
 in increased IGF-IR promoter activity and elevated IGF-IR levels,
 whereas expression in wild-type cells of a dominant negative fragment
 of ATM specifically reduces IGF-IR expression, results consistent with
 a role for ATM in regulating IGF-IR expression at the level of
 transcription. When expression of IGF-IR cDNA is forced in AT cells via
 a heterologous viral promoter, near normal radioresistance is conferred
 on the cells. Conversely, in ATM cells complemented with the ATM cDNA,
 specific inhibition of the IGF-IR pathway prevents correction of the
 radiosensitivity. Taken together, these results establish a fundamental
 link between ATM function and IGF-IR expression and suggest that
 reduced expression of IGF-IR contributes to the radiosensitivity of AT
 cells. In addition, because IGF-I plays a major role in human growth
 and metabolism and serves as a survival and differentiation factor for
 developing neuronal tissue, these results may provide a basis for
 understanding other aspects of the AT syndrome, including the growth
 abnormalities, insulin resistance, and neurodegeneration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Our understanding of the mammalian cell cycle is due in large part
 to the analysis of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 2 and CDK4/6. These
 kinases are regulated by E and D type cyclins, respectively, and
 coordinate the G1/S-phase transition. In contrast, little
 is known about CDK3, a homolog of CDK2 and cell division cycle kinase 2
 (CDC2). Previous studies using ectopic expression of human CDK3 suggest
 a role for this kinase in the G1/S-phase transition, but
 analysis of the endogenous kinase has been stymied by the
 low levels of protein present in cells and by the absence of an
 identifiable cyclin partner. Herein we report the presence of a single
 point mutation in the CDK3 gene from several Mus
 musculus strains commonly used in the laboratory. This mutation
 results in the replacement of a conserved tryptophan (Trp-187) within
 kinase consensus domain IX with a stop codon. The protein predicted to
 be encoded by this allele is truncated near the T loop, which is
 involved in activation by CDK-activating kinase. This mutation also
 deletes motif XI known to be required for kinase function and is,
 therefore, expected to generate a null allele. In stark contrast, CDK3
 from two wild-mice species (Mus spretus and Mus mus
 castaneus) lack this mutation. These data indicate that CDK3 is
 not required for M. musculus development and suggest
 that any functional role played by CDK3 in the G1/S-phase
 transition is likely to be redundant with another CDK.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous complementation and mapping of mutations that change the
 usual yellow color of the Zygomycete Phycomyces
 blakesleeanus to white or red led to the definition of two
 structural genes for carotene biosynthesis. We have cloned one of these
 genes, carRA, by taking advantage of its close linkage
 to the other, carB, responsible for phytoene
 dehydrogenase. The sequences of the wild type and six mutants have been
 established, compared with sequences in other organisms, and correlated
 with the mutant phenotypes. The carRA and
 carB coding sequences are separated by 1,381
 untranslated nucleotides and are divergently transcribed. Gene
 carRA contains separate domains for two enzymes,
 lycopene cyclase and phytoene synthase, and regulates the overall
 activity of the pathway and its response to physical and chemical
 stimuli from the environment. The lycopene cyclase domain of
 carRA derived from a duplication of a gene from a common
 ancestor of fungi and Brevibacterium linens; the
 phytoene synthase domain is similar to the phytoene and squalene
 synthases of many organisms; but the regulatory functions appear to be
 specific to Phycomyces.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe the time evolution of gene expression levels by using a
 time translational matrix to predict future expression levels of genes
 based on their expression levels at some initial time. We deduce the
 time translational matrix for previously published DNA microarray gene
 expression data sets by modeling them within a linear framework by
 using the characteristic modes obtained by singular value
 decomposition. The resulting time translation matrix provides a measure
 of the relationships among the modes and governs their time evolution.
 We show that a truncated matrix linking just a few modes is a good
 approximation of the full time translation matrix. This finding
 suggests that the number of essential connections among the genes is
 small.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Eight novel families of miniature inverted repeat transposable
 elements (MITEs) were discovered in the African malaria mosquito,
 Anopheles gambiae, by using new software designed to
 rapidly identify MITE-like sequences based on their structural
 characteristics. Divergent subfamilies have been found in two families.
 Past mobility was demonstrated by evidence of MITE insertions that
 resulted in the duplication of specific TA, TAA, or 8-bp targets. Some
 of these MITEs share the same target duplications and similar terminal
 sequences with MITEs and other DNA transposons in human and other
 organisms. MITEs in A. gambiae range from 40 to 1340
 copies per genome, much less abundant than MITEs in the yellow fever
 mosquito, Aedes aegypti. Statistical analyses suggest
 that most A. gambiae MITEs are in highly AT-rich
 regions, many of which are closely associated with each other. The
 analyses of these novel MITEs underscored interesting questions
 regarding their diversity, origin, evolution, and relationships to the
 host genomes. The discovery of diverse families of MITEs in A.
 gambiae has important practical implications in light of
 current efforts to control malaria by replacing vector mosquitoes with
 genetically modified refractory mosquitoes. Finally, the systematic
 approach to rapidly identify novel MITEs should have broad applications
 for the analysis of the ever-growing sequence databases of a wide range
 of organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Length change mutation at the Ms6hm hypervariable mouse
 minisatellite locus was analyzed in C57BL/6N × C3H/HeN
 F1 mice and the F1 of the reciprocal cross born
 to irradiated male parents. Spontaneous mutant frequencies were 8.4%
 and 9.8% for the paternally derived and maternally derived C3H/HeN
 alleles, respectively. The mutant frequencies for the paternally
 derived allele increased to 22% and 19% when the male parents were
 irradiated with 6 Gy at the postmeiotic spermatozoa stage and the
 spermatogonia stage, respectively. These increases in the mutant
 frequency were at least 10 to 100 times higher than those expected from
 the frequency of hits to the 3- to 4-kb allele, suggesting that the
 length change mutation at this minisatellite locus was not a targeted
 event due directly to DNA damage in the region. Further analysis
 demonstrated that the mutant frequency increased also at the maternally
 derived C3H/HeN allele to 20% when the male parents were irradiated
 at the spermatozoa stage. This increase in the maternal allele mutation
 was not observed in F1 born to irradiated spermatogonia.
 The present study suggests that introduction of DNA damage by
 irradiated sperm triggers genomic instability in zygotes and in embryos
 of subsequent developmental stages, and this genomic instability
 induces untargeted mutation in cis at the paternally derived
 minisatellite allele and in trans at the maternally derived
 unirradiated allele. Untargeted mutation revealed in the present study
 defines a previously unnoticed genetic hazard to the maternally derived
 genome by the paternally introduced DNA damage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified and characterized an Arabidopsis thaliana
 rad50 mutant plant containing a T-DNA insertion in the
 AtRAD50 gene and showing both meiotic and DNA repair
 defects. We report here that rad50/rad50 mutant cells
 show a progressive shortening of telomeric DNA relative to heterozygous
 rad50/RAD50 controls and that the mutant cell
 population rapidly enters a crisis, with the majority of the cells
 dying. Surviving rad50 mutant cells have longer
 telomeres than wild-type cells, indicating the existence in plants of
 an alternative RAD50-independent mechanism for telomere
 maintenance. These results report the role of a protein essential for
 double-strand break repair in telomere maintenance in higher
 eukaryotes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In most eukaryotic cells, mitochondria use the respiratory
 chain to produce a proton gradient, which is then harnessed for the
 synthesis of ATP. Recently, mitochondrial roles in regulation of
 apoptosis have been discovered in many cell types. Eosinophils
 (Eos) die by apoptosis, but the presence and function of
 mitochondria in Eos are unknown. This study found that Eos contain
 mitochondria in small numbers, as shown by labeling with membrane
 potential-sensitive dyes and in situ PCR for a
 mitochondrial gene. Eos generate mitochondrial membrane potential from
 hydrolysis of ATP rather than from respiration, as shown by
 mitochondrial respiratory inhibitors and mitochondrial uncouplers. The
 mitochondria provide insignificant respiration but can induce
 apoptosis, as shown by using the mitochondrial
 F1F0-ATPase inhibitor oligomycin and
 translocation of cytochrome c. Thus during differentiation
 of Eos, although respiration is lost, the other central role of
 mitochondria, the induction of apoptosis, is retained.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD8+ and CD8− T cell lines expressing the
 same antigen-specific receptor [the 2C T cell receptor (TCR)] were
 compared for ability to bind soluble peptide-MHC and to lyse target
 cells. The 2C TCR on CD8− cells bound a syngeneic MHC
 (Kb+)-peptide complex 10–100 times less well than the same
 TCR on CD8+ cells, and the CD8− 2C cells lysed
 target cells presenting this complex very poorly. Surprisingly,
 however, the CD8− cells differed little from
 CD8+ cells in ability to bind an allogeneic MHC
 (Ld+)-peptide complex and to lyse target cells presenting
 this complex. The CD8+/CD8− difference
 provided an opportunity to estimate how long TCR engagements with
 peptide-MHC have to persist to initiate the cytolytic T cell response.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Factors that affect naïve T cell proliferation in syngeneic
 lymphopenic hosts were investigated. 2C T cell receptor (TCR)
 transgenic T cells lacking both CD8 and CD4 survived but hardly
 proliferated. Proliferation of CD8+ 2C cells was
 proportional to the abundance of cognate peptide/MHC complexes and
 was severely inhibited by injection of anti-CD8 antibody. Weakly
 reactive self-peptides slightly enhanced CD8+ 2C cell
 proliferation whereas a potent agonist peptide promoted much more rapid
 proliferation, but inflammation-stimulating adjuvant had only a small
 effect on the rate of cell proliferation. The findings suggest that
 under uniform lymphopenic conditions, the widely different rates of
 proliferation of T cells expressing various TCR, or the same TCR in the
 presence or absence of CD8, reflect the strength of interaction between
 TCR and MHC associated with particular self-peptides.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The binding of killer cell Ig-like Receptors (KIR) to their Class I
 MHC ligands was shown previously to be characterized by extremely rapid
 association and dissociation rate constants. During experiments to
 investigate the biochemistry of receptor–ligand binding in more
 detail, the kinetic parameters of the interaction were observed to
 alter dramatically in the presence of Zn2+ but not other
 divalent cations. The basis of this phenomenon is
 Zn2+-induced multimerization of the KIR molecules as
 demonstrated by BIAcore, analytical ultracentrifugation, and chemical
 cross-linking experiments. Zn2+-dependent multimerization
 of KIR may be critical for formation of the clusters of KIR and HLA-C
 molecules, the “natural killer (NK) cell immune synapse,”
 observed at the site of contact between the NK cell and target cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A deranged expression of MHC class I glycoproteins, characteristic
 of a variety of malignancies, contributes to the ability of cancer to
 avoid destruction by T cell-mediated immunity. An abrogation of the
 metastatic capacity of B16 melanoma cells has been achieved by
 transfecting an MHC class I-encoding vector into class I-deficient B16
 melanoma clones [Gorelik, E., Kim, M., Duty, L. & Galili, U. (1993)
 Clin. Exp. Metastasis 11, 439–452]. We report here
 that the deranged expression of class I molecules by B16 melanoma cells
 is more than a mere acquisition of the capacity to escape immune
 recognition. Namely, cells of the B16 melanoma prompted splenic
 lymphocytes to commit death after coculture. However, a class
 I-expressing and nonmetastatic CL8-2 clone was found to be less potent
 as an inducer of apoptosis than class I-deficient and
 metastatic BL9 and BL12 clones. Both Thy1.2+ and
 Thy1.2− splenocytes underwent cell death when exposed to
 the class I-deficient BL9 clone. A proportion of CD4+ and
 CD8+ cells among splenocytes exposed to the BL9 clone was
 lower than that observed in a coculture with cells of the CL8-2 clone.
 Consistently, none of the melanoma clones studied produced a ligand to
 the FAS receptor (FAS-L). Thus, our results provide evidence that
 (i) the production of FAS-L may not be the sole
 mechanism by which malignant cells induce apoptosis in
 immunocytes, and (ii) absence of MHC class I
 glycoproteins plays an important role in preventing the elimination of
 potential effector immunocytes by tumor cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The assembly of a pre-B cell receptor (pre-BCR) composed of an Ig
 μ heavy chain (μH-chain), the surrogate light (SL) chain, and the
 Igα/β dimer is critical for late pro-B cells to advance
 to the pre-B cell stage. By using a transgenic mouse model, in which
 μH-chain synthesis is solely driven by a tetracycline-controlled
 transactivator, we show that de novo synthesis of
 μH-chain in transgenic pro-B cells not only induces differentiation
 but also proliferation. This positive effect of μH-chain synthesis on
 proliferation requires the presence of SL chain and costimulatory
 signals provided by stromal cells or IL-7. We conclude that pre-BCR
 signaling induces clonal expansion of early pre-B cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD40 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily.
 The interaction between CD40 and CD40 ligand (CD154) activates NF-κB,
 Jun N-terminal kinase, and Janus kinase/signal transducers and
 activators of transcription pathways and promotes B cell growth,
 differentiation, and survival as well as IL-12 production in
 macrophages and dendritic cells. We demonstrate here the existence of
 multiple isoforms of CD40 mRNA generated by alternative splicing and
 show that their expression is regulated differentially in activated
 macrophages and dendritic cells. Pre-CD40 RNA is spliced preferentially
 out to signal-transducible CD40 mRNA in the early stage of activation;
 half of the CD40 mRNA is replaced by the signal-nontransducible CD40
 mRNAs in the later stages (24 h). Using IL-12 p40 gene expression as a
 reporter for CD40 signaling, we show that three of the alternative
 isoforms can disable signaling through CD40. The major alternative
 isoform lacks the membrane-associated endodomain and seems to reduce
 the amount of the signal-transducible form available on the cell
 surface. It would seem, therefore, that CD40 expression is controlled
 by posttranscriptional and posttranslational regulation through
 alternative splicing. Modulation of isoform expression may provide a
 mechanism by which cells regulate their susceptibility to CD40L
 signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have demonstrated hematopoietic stem cell
 amplification in vitro after the activation of three
 cell-surface receptors: flt3/flk2, c-kit, and gp130. We now show
 flt3-ligand and Steel factor alone will stimulate >85% of
 c-kit+Sca-1+lin− adult mouse bone
 marrow cells to proliferate in single-cell serum-free cultures, but
 concomitant retention of their stem cell activity requires additional
 exposure to a ligand that will activate gp130. Moreover, this response
 is restricted to a narrow range of gp130-activating ligand
 concentrations, above and below which hematopoietic stem cell activity
 is lost. These findings indicate a unique contribution of gp130
 signaling to the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cell function when
 these cells are stimulated to divide with additional differential
 effects dictated by the intensity of gp130 activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
T cell recognition of autoantigens is critical to progressive
 immune-mediated destruction of islet cells, which leads to autoimmune
 diabetes. We identified a naturally presented autoantigen from the
 human islet antigen glutamic acid decarboxylase, 65-kDa isoform
 (GAD65), by using a combination of chromatography and mass spectrometry
 of peptides bound by the type I diabetes (insulin-dependent diabetes
 mellitus, IDDM)-associated HLA-DR4 molecule. Peptides encompassing this
 epitope-stimulated GAD65-specific T cells from diabetic patients and a
 DR4-positive individual at high risk for developing IDDM. T cell
 responses were antagonized by altered peptide ligands containing single
 amino acid modifications. This direct identification and manipulation
 of GAD65 epitope recognition provides an approach toward dissection of
 the complex CD4+ T cell response in IDDM.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) recently have been shown to be
 required for thymocyte apoptosis and T cell differentiation
 and/or proliferation. To investigate the molecular targets of JNK
 signaling in lymphoid cells, we used mice in which the serines
 phosphorylated by JNK in c-Jun were replaced by homologous
 recombination with alanines (junAA mice). Lymphocytes
 from these mice showed no phosphorylation of c-Jun in response to
 activation stimuli, whereas c-Jun was rapidly phosphorylated in
 wild-type cells. Despite the fact that c-jun is
 essential for early development, junAA mice develop
 normally; however, c-Jun N-terminal phosphorylation was required for
 efficient T cell receptor-induced and tumor necrosis factor-α-induced
 thymocyte apoptosis. In contrast, c-Jun phosphorylation by JNK
 is not required for T cell proliferation or differentiation. Because
 jnk2−/− T cells display a proliferation defect, we
 concluded that JNK2 must have other substrates required for lymphocyte
 function. Surprisingly, jnk2−/− T cells showed
 reduced NF-AT DNA-binding activity after activation. Furthermore,
 overexpression of JNK2 in Jurkat T cells strongly enhanced
 NF-AT-dependent transcription. These results demonstrate that JNK
 signaling differentially uses c-Jun and NF-AT as molecular effectors
 during thymocyte apoptosis and T cell proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In most vertebrate embryos and neonates studied to date unique
 antigen receptors (antibodies and T cell receptors) are expressed that
 possess a limited immune repertoire. We have isolated a subclass of
 IgM, IgM1gj, from the nurse shark Ginglymostoma
 cirratum that is preferentially expressed in neonates. The
 variable (V) region gene encoding the heavy (H) chain underwent V-D-J
 rearrangement in germ cells (“germline-joined”). Such H chain V
 genes were discovered over 10 years ago in sharks but until now were
 not shown to be expressed at appreciable levels; we find expression of
 H1gj in primary and secondary lymphoid tissues early in
 life, but in adults only in primary lymphoid tissue, which is
 identified in this work as the epigonal organ. H1gj chain
 associates covalently with light (L) chains and is most similar in
 sequence to IgM H chains, but like mammalian IgG has three rather than
 the four IgM constant domains; deletion of the ancestral IgM C2 domain
 thus defines both IgG and IgM1gj. Because sharks are the
 members of the oldest vertebrate class known to possess antibodies,
 unique or specialized antibodies expressed early in ontogeny in sharks
 and other vertebrates were likely present at the inception of the
 adaptive immune system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The HIV-1 regulatory proteins Rev and Tat are expressed early in
 the virus life cycle and thus may be important targets for the immune
 control of HIV-1-infection and for effective vaccines. However, the
 extent to which these proteins are targeted in natural HIV-1 infection
 as well as precise epitopes targeted by human cytotoxic T lymphocytes
 (CTL) remain to be defined. In the present study, 57 HIV-1-infected
 individuals were screened for responses against Tat and Rev by using
 overlapping peptides spanning the entire Tat and Rev proteins. CD8+ T
 cell responses against Tat and Rev were found in up to 19 and 37% of
 HIV-1-infected individuals, respectively, indicating that these
 regulatory proteins are important targets for HIV-1-specific CTL.
 Despite the small size of these proteins, multiple CTL epitopes were
 identified in each. These data indicate that Tat and Rev are frequently
 targeted by CTL in natural HIV-1 infection and may be important targets
 for HIV vaccines.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The major murine systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) susceptibility
 locus Sle1 is syntenic to a chromosomal region linked
 with SLE susceptibility in multiple human studies. Congenic analyses
 have shown that Sle1 breaks tolerance to chromatin, a
 necessary step for full disease induction that can be suppressed by
 specific modifier loci. In the present study, our fine mapping analysis
 of the location of Sle1 has determined that three loci
 within this congenic interval, termed Sle1a,
 Sle1b, and Sle1c, can independently cause
 a loss of tolerance to chromatin. Each displays a distinctive profile
 of serological and cellular characteristics, with T and B cell
 functions being more affected by Sle1a and
 Sle1b, respectively. The epistatic interactions of
 Sle1 with other susceptibility loci to cause severe
 nephritis cannot be accounted, however, by these three loci alone,
 suggesting the existence of an additional locus, termed
 Sle1d. These findings indicate that the potent
 autoimmune phenotype caused by the Sle1 genomic interval
 reflects the combined impact of four, separate, susceptibility genes.
 This level of genetic complexity, combined with similar findings in
 other systems, supports the possibility that many complex trait loci
 reflect the impact of polymorphisms in linked clusters of genes with
 related functions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating
 disease of unknown cause that afflicts the central nervous system. MS
 is typified by a highly clonally restricted antigen-driven antibody
 response that is confined largely to the central nervous system. The
 major antigenic targets of this response and the role of antibody in
 disease pathogenesis remain unclear. To help resolve these issues, we
 cloned the IgG repertoire directly from active plaque and periplaque
 regions in MS brain and from B cells recovered from the cerebrospinal
 fluid of a patient with MS with subacute disease. We found that
 high-affinity anti-DNA antibodies are a major component of the
 intrathecal IgG response in the patients with MS that we studied.
 Furthermore, we show DNA-specific monoclonal antibodies rescued from
 two subjects with MS as well as a DNA-specific antibody rescued from an
 individual suffering from systemic lupus erythematosus bound
 efficiently to the surface of neuronal cells and oligodendrocytes. For
 two of these antibodies, cell-surface recognition was DNA dependent.
 Our findings indicate that anti-DNA antibodies may promote important
 neuropathologic mechanisms in chronic inflammatory disorders, such as
 MS and systemic lupus erythematosus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ever since monoclonal antibodies were produced in 1975 with mouse
 myeloma cells there has been interest in developing human myeloma
 cultures for the production of monoclonal antibodies. However, despite
 multiple attempts, no human myeloma line suitable for hybridoma
 production has been described. Here we report the derivation of a
 hypoxanthine–aminopterin–thymidine-sensitive and ouabain-resistant
 human myeloma cell line (Karpas 707H) that contains unique genetic
 markers. We show that this line is useful for the generation of stable
 human hybridomas. It can easily be fused with ouabain-sensitive
 Epstein–Barr virus-transformed cells as well as with fresh tonsil
 and blood lymphocytes, giving rise to stable hybrids that continuously
 secrete very large quantities of human immunoglobulins. The derived
 hybrids do not lose immunoglobulin secretion over many months of
 continuous growth. The availability of this cell line should enable the
 in vitro immortalization of human antibody-producing B
 cells that are formed in vivo. The monoclonal antibodies
 produced may have advantages in immunotherapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sequestration of malaria-infected erythrocytes in the peripheral
 circulation has been associated with the virulence of Plasmodium
 falciparum. Defining the adhesive phenotypes of infected
 erythrocytes may therefore help us to understand how severe disease is
 caused and how to prevent or treat it. We have previously shown that
 malaria-infected erythrocytes may form apparent autoagglutinates of
 infected erythrocytes. Here we show that such autoagglutination of a
 laboratory line of P. falciparum is mediated by
 platelets and that the formation of clumps of infected erythrocytes and
 platelets requires expression of the platelet surface glycoprotein
 CD36. Platelet-dependent clumping is a distinct adhesive phenotype,
 expressed by some but not all CD36-binding parasite lines, and is
 common in field isolates of P. falciparum. Finally, we
 have established that platelet-mediated clumping is strongly associated
 with severe malaria. Precise definition of the molecular basis of this
 intriguing adhesive phenotype may help to elucidate the complex
 pathophysiology of malaria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by
 polyglutamine expansion in the protein huntingtin (htt). Pathogenesis
 in HD appears to involve the formation of ubiquitinated neuronal
 intranuclear inclusions containing N-terminal mutated htt, abnormal
 protein interactions, and the aggregate sequestration of a variety of
 proteins (noticeably, transcription factors). To identify novel
 htt-interacting proteins in a simple model system, we used a yeast
 two-hybrid screen with a Caenorhabditis
 elegans activation domain library. We found a predicted WW
 domain protein (ZK1127.9) that interacts with N-terminal fragments of
 htt in two-hybrid tests. A human homologue of ZK1127.9 is CA150, a
 transcriptional coactivator with a N-terminal insertion that contains
 an imperfect (Gln-Ala)38 tract encoded by a polymorphic
 repeat DNA. CA150 interacted in vitro with full-length
 htt from lymphoblastoid cells. The expression of CA150, measured
 immunohistochemically, was markedly increased in human HD brain tissue
 compared with normal age-matched human brain tissue, and CA150 showed
 aggregate formation with partial colocalization to ubiquitin-positive
 aggregates. In 432 HD patients, the CA150 repeat length explains a
 small, but statistically significant, amount of the variability in the
 onset age. Our data suggest that abnormal expression of CA150, mediated
 by interaction with polyglutamine-expanded htt, may alter transcription
 and have a role in HD pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A human p53 homologue, p63
 (p40/p51/p73L/CUSP) that maps to the chromosomal
 region 3q27–29 was found to produce a variety of transcripts that
 encode DNA-binding proteins with and without a trans-activation domain
 (TA- or ΔN-, respectively). The p63 gene locus was
 found to be amplified in squamous cell carcinoma, and overexpression of
 ΔNp63 (p40) led to increased growth of transformed cells in
 vitro and in vivo. Moreover,
 p63-null mice displayed abnormal epithelial development
 and germ-line human mutations were found to cause ectodermal dysplasia.
 We now demonstrate that certain p63 isotypes form complexes with p53.
 p53 mutations R175H or R248W abolish the association of p53 with p63,
 whereas V143A or R273H has no effect. Deletion studies suggest that the
 DNA-binding domains of both p53 and p63 mediate the association.
 Overexpression of wild type but not mutant (R175H) p53 results in the
 caspase-dependent degradation of certain ΔNp63 proteins (p40 and
 ΔNp63α). The association between p53 and ΔNp63 supports a
 previously unrecognized role for p53 in regulation of ΔNp63
 stability. The ability of p53 to mediate ΔNp63 degradation may
 balance the capacity of ΔNp63 to accelerate tumorigenesis or to
 induce epithelial proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Glycoprotein (GP) V is a major substrate cleaved by the
 protease thrombin during thrombin-induced platelet activation. Previous
 analysis of platelets from GP V-null mice suggested a role for GP V as
 a negative modulator of platelet activation by thrombin. We now report
 the mechanism by which thrombin activates GP V −/− platelets. We
 show that proteolytically inactive forms of thrombin induce robust
 stimulatory responses in GP V null mouse platelets, via the platelet GP
 Ib–IX–V complex. Because proteolytically inactive thrombin can
 activate wild-type mouse and human platelets after treatment with
 thrombin to cleave GP V, this mechanism is involved in thrombin-induced
 platelet aggregation. Platelet activation through GP Ib–IX depends on
 ADP secretion, and specific inhibitors demonstrate that the recently
 cloned P2Y12 ADP receptor (Gi-coupled ADP
 receptor) is involved in this pathway, and that the P2Y1
 receptor (Gq-coupled ADP receptor) may play a less
 significant role. Thrombosis was generated in GP V null mice only in
 response to catalytically inactive thrombin, whereas thrombosis
 occurred in both genotypes (wild type and GP V null) in response to
 active thrombin. These data support a thrombin receptor function for
 the platelet membrane GP Ib–IX–V complex, and describe a novel
 thrombin signaling mechanism involving an initiating proteolytic event
 followed by stimulation of the GP Ib–IX via thrombin acting as a
 ligand, resulting in platelet activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mechanisms through which LH-RH antagonists suppress
 gonadotroph functions and LH-RH receptor (LH-RH-R) production are
 incompletely understood. To elucidate these mechanisms, we investigated
 the effects of Cetrorelix on the mRNA expression of pituitary LH-RH-R
 and luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in three experimental systems
 with different pituitary LH-RH environments. Ovariectomy induced
 3.61-fold and 6.34-fold increases in the mRNA expression of pituitary
 LH-RH-R in rats after 11 and 21 days, respectively. After (5 h) a
 single injection of 100 μg Cetrorelix, no significant decrease
 occurred in the mRNA levels of pituitary LH-RH-R in ovariectomized
 (OVX) rats with high pituitary exposure to LH-RH, but there was a
 significant 23.2% reduction in cycling rats with normal hypophysial
 LH-RH environment. Prolonged treatment for 10 days with a Cetrorelix
 depot formulation releasing 100 μg/day decreased the concentration
 of mRNA for pituitary LH-RH-R by 72.6% in OVX rats, but only by 32.9%
 in normal rats. The decline in serum LH was 98.7% in OVX rats and
 63.2% in normal rats, resulting in a minimal 0.1–0.2 ng/ml LH
 concentration in both groups. A continuous exposure of pituitary cells
 to 100 nM Cetrorelix in the superfusion system, which is devoid of
 LH-RH, did not cause any significant changes in LH-RH-R mRNA level.
 These studies demonstrate that prolonged exposure to Cetrorelix
 in vivo, but not in vitro, down-regulates
 the mRNA expression of the pituitary receptors for LH-RH. Our findings
 indicate that LH-RH antagonists exert their inhibitory effects on the
 gene expression of pituitary LH-RH-R by counteracting the stimulatory
 effect of endogenous LH-RH.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Isotretinoin (13-cis retinoic acid) is
 frequently prescribed for severe acne [Peck, G. L., Olsen,
 T. G., Yoder, F. W., Strauss, J. S., Downing, D.
 T., Pandya, M., Butkus, D. & Arnaud-Battandier, J. (1979)
 N. Engl. J. Med. 300, 329–333] but can
 impair night vision [Fraunfelder, F. T., LaBraico, J. M. &
 Meyer, S. M. (1985) Am. J. Ophthalmol. 100,
 534–537] shortly after the beginning of therapy [Shulman, S. R.
 (1989) Am. J. Public Health 79, 1565–1568]. As rod
 photoreceptors are responsible for night vision, we administered
 isotretinoin to rats to learn whether night blindness resulted from rod
 cell death or from rod functional impairment. High-dose isotretinoin
 was given daily for 2 months and produced systemic toxicity, but this
 caused no histological loss of rod photoreceptors, and rod-driven
 electroretinogram amplitudes were normal after prolonged dark
 adaptation. Additional studies showed, however, that even a single dose
 of isotretinoin slowed the recovery of rod signaling after exposure to
 an intense bleaching light, and that rhodopsin regeneration was
 markedly slowed. When only a single dose was given, rod function
 recovered to normal within several days. Rods and cones both showed
 slow recovery from bleach after isotretinoin in rats and in mice. HPLC
 analysis of ocular retinoids after isotretinoin and an intense bleach
 showed decreased levels of rhodopsin chromophore, 11-cis
 retinal, and the accumulation of the biosynthetic intermediates,
 11-cis and all-trans retinyl esters.
 Isotretinoin was also found to protect rat photoreceptors from
 light-induced damage, suggesting that strategies of altering retinoid
 cycling may have therapeutic implications for some forms of retinal and
 macular degeneration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hepatotropism is a prominent feature of hepatitis B virus (HBV)
 infection. Cell lines of nonhepatic origin do not independently support
 HBV replication. Here, we show that the nuclear hormone receptors,
 hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 and retinoid X receptor α plus peroxisome
 proliferator-activated receptor α, support HBV replication in
 nonhepatic cells by controlling pregenomic RNA synthesis, indicating
 these liver-enriched transcription factors control a unique molecular
 switch restricting viral tropism. In contrast, hepatocyte nuclear
 factor 3 antagonizes nuclear hormone receptor-mediated viral
 replication, demonstrating distinct regulatory roles for these
 liver-enriched transcription factors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite considerable concerns with pharmacological stimulation of
 fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) as a therapeutic option for the β-globin
 disorders, the molecular basis of action of Hb F-inducing agents
 remains unclear. Here we show that an intracellular pathway including
 soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) and cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG)
 plays a role in induced expression of the γ-globin gene. sGC, an
 obligate heterodimer of α- and β-subunits, participates in a
 variety of physiological processes by converting GTP to cGMP. Northern
 blot analyses with erythroid cell lines expressing different β-like
 globin genes showed that, whereas the β-subunit is expressed at
 similar levels, high-level expression of the α-subunit is
 preferentially observed in erythroid cells expressing γ-globin but
 not those expressing β-globin. Also, the levels of expression of the
 γ-globin gene correlate to those of the α-subunit. sGC activators
 or cGMP analogs increased expression of the γ-globin gene in
 erythroleukemic cells as well as in primary erythroblasts from normal
 subjects and patients with β-thalassemia. Nuclear run-off assays
 showed that the sGC activator protoporphyrin IX stimulates
 transcription of the γ-globin gene. Furthermore, increased expression
 of the γ-globin gene by well known Hb F-inducers such as hemin and
 butyrate was abolished by inhibiting sGC or PKG activity. Taken
 together, these results strongly suggest that the sGC–PKG pathway
 constitutes a mechanism that regulates expression of the γ-globin
 gene. Further characterization of this pathway should permit us to
 develop new therapeutics for the β-globin disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Metastasis is the primary cause of death in human breast cancer.
 Metastasis to bone, lungs, liver, and brain involves dissemination of
 breast cancer cells via the bloodstream and requires adhesion within
 the vasculature. Blood cell adhesion within the vasculature depends on
 integrins, a family of transmembrane adhesion receptors, and is
 regulated by integrin activation. Here we show that integrin αvβ3
 supports breast cancer cell attachment under blood flow conditions in
 an activation-dependent manner. Integrin αvβ3 was found in two
 distinct functional states in human breast cancer cells. The activated,
 but not the nonactivated, state supported tumor cell arrest during
 blood flow through interaction with platelets. Importantly, activated
 αvβ3 was expressed by freshly isolated metastatic human breast
 cancer cells and variants of the MDA-MB 435 human breast cancer cell
 line, derived from mammary fat pad tumors or distant metastases in
 severe combined immunodeficient mice. Expression of constitutively
 activated mutant αvβ3D723R, but not
 αvβ3WT, in MDA-MB 435 cells strongly promoted
 metastasis in the mouse model. Thus breast cancer cells can exhibit a
 platelet-interactive and metastatic phenotype that is controlled by the
 activation of integrin αvβ3. Consequently, alterations within
 tumors that lead to the aberrant control of integrin activation are
 expected to adversely affect the course of human breast cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Functional inactivation of the tumor susceptibility gene
 tsg101 in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts results in cellular
 transformation and the ability to form metastatic tumors in nude mice.
 The N-terminal region of tsg101 protein is structurally similar to the
 catalytic domain of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, suggesting a
 potential role of tsg101 in ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation. The
 C-terminal domain of TSG101 can function as a repressor of
 transcription. To investigate the physiological function of
 tsg101, we generated a null mutation of the mouse gene
 by gene targeting. Homozygous tsg101−/− embryos fail
 to develop past day 6.5 of embryogenesis (E6.5), are reduced in size,
 and do not form mesoderm. Mutant embryos show a decrease in cellular
 proliferation in vivo and in vitro but no
 increase in apoptosis. Although levels of p53
 transcripts were not affected in tsg101−/− embryos,
 p53 protein accumulated dramatically, implying altered
 posttranscriptional control of p53. In addition, transcription of the
 p53 effector, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor
 p21WAF-1/CIP-1, was increased 5- to 10-fold, whereas
 activation of MDM2 transcription secondary to p53 elevation was not
 observed. Introduction of a p53 null mutation into
 tsg101−/− embryos rescued the gastrulation defect
 and prolonged survival until E8.5. These results demonstrate that
 tsg101 is essential for the proliferative burst before
 the onset of gastrulation and establish a functional connection between
 tsg101 and the p53 pathway in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
EBV-encoded nuclear antigen-1 (EBNA-1) binding to a cis-acting
 viral DNA element, oriP, enables plasmids to persist in
 dividing human cells as multicopy episomes that attach to chromosomes
 during mitosis. In investigating the significance of EBNA-1 binding to
 mitotic chromosomes, we identified the basic domains of EBNA-1 within
 amino acids 1–89 and 323–386 as critical for chromosome binding. In
 contrast, the EBNA-1 C terminus (amino acids 379–641), which includes
 the nuclear localization signal and DNA-binding domain, does not
 associate with mitotic chromosomes or retain oriP
 plasmid DNA in dividing cell nuclei, but does enable the accumulation
 of replicated oriP-containing plasmid DNA in transient
 replication assays. The importance of chromosome association in episome
 maintenance was evaluated by replacing EBNA-1 amino acids 1–378 with
 cell proteins that have similar chromosome binding characteristics.
 High-mobility group-I amino acids 1–90 or histone H1–2 could
 substitute for EBNA-1 amino acids 1–378 in mediating more efficient
 accumulation of replicated oriP plasmid, association
 with mitotic chromosomes, nuclear retention, and long-term episome
 persistence. These data strongly support the hypothesis that mitotic
 chromosome association is a critical factor for episome maintenance.
 The replacement of 60% of EBNA-1 with cell protein is a significant
 step toward eliminating the need for noncellular protein sequences in
 the maintenance of episomal DNA in human cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Agrobacterium tumefaciens is a soil phytopathogen
 that elicits neoplastic growths on the host plant species. In nature,
 however, Agrobacterium also may encounter organisms
 belonging to other kingdoms such as insects and animals that feed on
 the infected plants. Can Agrobacterium, then, also
 infect animal cells? Here, we report that Agrobacterium
 attaches to and genetically transforms several types of human cells. In
 stably transformed HeLa cells, the integration event occurred at the
 right border of the tumor-inducing plasmid's transferred-DNA (T-DNA),
 suggesting bona fide T-DNA transfer and lending support to the notion
 that Agrobacterium transforms human cells by a mechanism
 similar to that which it uses for transformation of plants cells.
 Collectively, our results suggest that Agrobacterium can
 transport its T-DNA to human cells and integrate it into their genome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The infected cell protein no. 0 (ICP0) of herpes simplex virus 1
 (HSV-1) is a promiscuous transactivator shown to enhance the expression
 of gene introduced into cells by infection or transfection. At the
 molecular level, ICP0 is a 775-aa ring finger protein localized
 initially in the nucleus and late in infection in the cytoplasm and
 mediates the degradation of several proteins and stabilization of
 others. None of the known functions at the molecular level account for
 the apparent activity of ICP0 as a transactivator. Here we report that
 ICP0 functionally interacts with cellular transcription factor BMAL1, a
 member of the basic helix–loop–helix PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS) super family
 of transcriptional regulators. Specifically, sequences mapped to the
 exon II of ICP0 interacted with BMAL1 in the yeast two-hybrid system
 and in reciprocal pull-down experiments in vitro.
 Moreover, the enhancement of transcription of a luciferase reporter
 construct whose promoter contained multiple BMAL1-binding sites by ICP0
 and BMAL1 was significantly greater than that observed by ICP0 or BMAL1
 alone. Although the level of BMAL1 present in nuclei of infected cells
 remained unchanged between 3 and 8 h after infection, the level of
 cytoplasmic BMAL1 was reduced at 8 h after infection. The
 reduction of cytoplasmic BMAL1 was significantly greater in cells
 infected with the ICP0-null mutant than in the wild-type virus-infected
 cells, suggesting that ICP0 mediates partial stabilization of the
 protein. These results indicate that ICP0 interacts physically and
 functionally with at least one cellular transcription-regulatory
 factor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sodalis glossinidius is a maternally transmitted
 secondary endosymbiont residing intracellularly in tissues of the
 tsetse flies, Glossina spp. In this study, we have used
 Tn5 mutagenesis and a negative selection procedure to derive a
 S. glossinidius mutant that is incapable of invading
 insect cells in vitro and is aposymbiotic when
 microinjected into tsetse. This mutant strain harbors Tn5 integrated
 into a chromosomal gene sharing high sequence identity with a type III
 secretion system invasion gene (invC) previously
 identified in Salmonella enterica. With the use of
 degenerate PCR, we have amplified a further six Sodalis
 inv/spa genes sharing high sequence identity
 with type III secretion system genes encoded by
 Salmonella pathogenicity island 1. Phylogenetic
 reconstructions based on the inv/spa
 genes of Sodalis and other members of the family
 Enterobacteriaceae have consistently identified a
 well-supported clade containing Sodalis and the enteric
 pathogens Shigella and Salmonella. These
 results suggest that Sodalis may have evolved from an
 ancestor with a parasitic intracellular lifestyle, possibly a
 latter-day entomopathogen. These observations lend credence to a
 hypothesis suggesting that vertically transmitted mutualistic
 endosymbionts evolve from horizontally transmitted parasites through a
 parasitism–mutualism continuum.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genome expression of positive-stranded RNA viruses starts with
 translation rather than transcription. For some viruses, the genome is
 the only viral mRNA and expression is regulated primarily at the
 translational level and by limited proteolysis of polyproteins. Other
 virus groups also generate subgenomic mRNAs later in the reproductive
 cycle. For nidoviruses, subgenomic mRNA synthesis (transcription) is
 discontinuous and yields a 5′ and 3′ coterminal nested set of mRNAs.
 Nidovirus transcription is not essential for genome replication, which
 relies on the autoprocessing products of two replicase polyproteins
 that are translated from the genome. We now show that the N-terminal
 replicase subunit, nonstructural protein 1 (nsp1), of the nidovirus
 equine arteritis virus is in fact dispensable for replication but
 crucial for transcription, thereby coupling replicase expression and
 subgenomic mRNA synthesis in an unprecedented manner. Nsp1 is composed
 of two papain-like protease domains and a predicted N-terminal zinc
 finger, which was implicated in transcription by site-directed
 mutagenesis. The structural integrity of nsp1 is essential, suggesting
 that the protease domains form a platform for the zinc finger to
 operate in transcription.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The human cytomegalovirus UL97 kinase, an important target of
 antiviral therapy, has an impact on at least two distinct phases of
 viral replication. Compared with wild-type virus, the UL97 deletion
 mutant exhibits an early replication defect that reduces DNA
 accumulation by 4- to 6-fold, as well as a late capsid maturation
 defect responsible for most of the observed 100- to 1000-fold reduction
 in replication. Block-release experiments with the antiviral
 2-bromo-5,6-dichloro-1-(β-d-ribofuranosyl)-benzimidazole
 revealed an important role for UL97 kinase in capsid assembly. Although
 cleavage of concatemeric DNA intermediates to unit-length genomes
 remained unaffected, progeny mutant virus maturation was delayed, with
 accumulation of progeny at significantly reduced levels compared with
 wild type after release of this block. Transmission electron microscopy
 confirmed the aberrant accumulation of empty A-like capsids containing
 neither viral DNA nor an internal scaffold structure, consistent with a
 failure to stably package DNA in mutant virus-infected cells. The
 function of UL97 in DNA synthesis as well as capsid assembly suggests
 that protein phosphorylation mediated by this herpesvirus-conserved
 kinase increases the efficiency of these two distinct phases of virus
 replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The worldwide threat of tuberculosis to human health
 emphasizes the need to develop novel approaches to a global
 epidemiological surveillance. The current standard for
 Mycobacterium tuberculosis typing based on
 IS6110 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)
 suffers from the difficulty of comparing data between independent
 laboratories. Here, we propose a high-resolution typing method based on
 variable number tandem repeats (VNTRs) of genetic elements named
 mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units (MIRUs) in 12 human
 minisatellite-like regions of the M. tuberculosis
 genome. MIRU-VNTR profiles of 72 different M.
 tuberculosis isolates were established by PCR analysis of all
 12 loci. From 2 to 8 MIRU-VNTR alleles were identified in the 12
 regions in these strains, which corresponds to a potential of over 16
 million different combinations, yielding a resolution power close to
 that of IS6110-RFLP. All epidemiologically related
 isolates tested were perfectly clustered by MIRU-VNTR typing,
 indicating that the stability of these MIRU-VNTRs is adequate to track
 outbreak episodes. The correlation between genetic relationships
 inferred from MIRU-VNTR and IS6110-RFLP typing was
 highly significant. Compared with IS6110-RFLP,
 high-resolution MIRU-VNTR typing has the considerable advantages of
 being fast, appropriate for all M. tuberculosis
 isolates, including strains that have a few IS6110
 copies, and permitting easy and rapid comparison of results from
 independent laboratories. This typing method opens the way to the
 construction of digital global databases for molecular epidemiology
 studies of M. tuberculosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To elucidate the roles of visual areas V1 and V2 and their
 interaction in early perceptual processing, we studied the responses of
 V1 and V2 neurons to statically displayed Kanizsa figures. We found
 evidence that V1 neurons respond to illusory contours of the Kanizsa
 figures. The illusory contour signals in V1 are weaker than in V2, but
 are significant, particularly in the superficial layers. The population
 averaged response to illusory contours emerged 100 msec after stimulus
 onset in the superficial layers of V1, and around 120–190 msec in the
 deep layers. The illusory contour response in V2 began earlier,
 occurring at 70 msec in the superficial layers and at 95 msec in the
 deep layers. The temporal sequence of the events suggests that the
 computation of illusory contours involves intercortical interaction,
 and that early perceptual organization is likely to be an interactive
 process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alterations in serotonin (5-hydroxytriptamine, 5-HT),
 norepinephrine, and γ-aminobutyric acid have been linked to the
 pathophysiology of anxiety and depression, and medications that
 modulate these neurotransmitters are widely used to treat mood
 disorders. Recently, the neuropeptide substance P (SP) and its
 receptor, the neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R), have been proposed as
 possible targets for new antidepressant and anxiolytic therapies.
 However, animal and human studies have so far failed to provide a clear
 consensus on the role of SP in the modulation of emotional states. Here
 we show that both genetic disruption and acute pharmacological blockade
 of the NK1R in mice result in a marked reduction of anxiety and
 stress-related responses. These behavioral changes are paralleled by an
 increase in the firing rate of 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe
 nucleus, a major source of serotonergic input to the forebrain. NK1R
 disruption also results in a selective desensitization of 5-HT1A
 inhibitory autoreceptors, which resembles the effect of sustained
 antidepressant treatment. Together these results indicate that the SP
 system powerfully modulates anxiety and suggest that this effect is at
 least in part mediated by changes in the 5-HT system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although long suspected from histochemical evidence for carbonic
 anhydrase (CA) activity on neurons and observations that CA inhibitors
 enhance the extracellular alkaline shifts associated with synaptic
 transmission, an extracellular CA in brain had not been identified. A
 candidate for this CA was suggested by the recent discovery of membrane
 CA (CA XIV) whose mRNA is expressed in mouse and human brain and in
 several other tissues. For immunolocalization of CA XIV in mouse and
 human brain, we developed two antibodies, one against a secretory form
 of enzymatically active recombinant mouse CA XIV, and one against a
 synthetic peptide corresponding to the 24 C-terminal amino acids in the
 human enzyme. Immunostaining for CA XIV was found on neuronal membranes
 and axons in both mouse and human brain. The highest expression was
 seen on large neuronal bodies and axons in the anterolateral part of
 pons and medulla oblongata. Other CA XIV-positive sites included the
 hippocampus, corpus callosum, cerebellar white matter and peduncles,
 pyramidal tract, and choroid plexus. Mouse brain also showed a positive
 reaction in the molecular layer of the cerebral cortex and granular
 cellular layer of the cerebellum. These observations make CA XIV a
 likely candidate for the extracellular CA postulated to have an
 important role in modulating excitatory synaptic transmission in brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Earlier extracellular recordings during natural sleep have shown
 that, during slow-wave sleep (SWS), neocortical neurons display
 long-lasting periods of silence, whereas they are tonically active and
 discharge at higher rates during waking and sleep with rapid eye
 movements (REMs). We analyzed the nature of long-lasting periods of
 neuronal silence in SWS and the changes in firing rates related to
 ocular movements during REM sleep and waking using intracellular
 recordings from electrophysiologically identified neocortical neurons
 in nonanesthetized and nonparalyzed cats. We found that the silent
 periods during SWS are associated with neuronal hyperpolarizations,
 which are due to a mixture of K+ currents and
 disfacilitation processes. Conventional fast-spiking neurons
 (presumably local inhibitory interneurons) increased their firing rates
 during REMs and eye movements in waking. During REMs, the firing rates
 of regular-spiking neurons from associative areas decreased and
 intracellular traces revealed numerous, short-lasting, low-amplitude
 inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), that were reversed after
 intracellular chloride infusion. In awake cats, regular-spiking neurons
 could either increase or decrease their firing rates during eye
 movements. The short-lasting IPSPs associated with eye movements were
 still present in waking; they preceded the spikes and affected their
 timing. We propose that there are two different forms of firing rate
 control: disfacilitation induces long-lasting periods of silence that
 occur spontaneously during SWS, whereas active inhibition, consisting
 of low-amplitude, short-lasting IPSPs, is prevalent during REMs and
 precisely controls the timing of action potentials in waking.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A better understanding of the molecular effects of aging in the
 brain may help to reveal important aspects of organismal aging, as well
 as processes that lead to age-related brain dysfunction. In this study,
 we have examined differences in gene expression in the hypothalamus and
 cortex of young and aged mice by using high-density oligonucleotide
 arrays. A number of key genes involved in neuronal structure and
 signaling are differentially expressed in both the aged hypothalamus
 and cortex, including synaptotagmin I, cAMP-dependent protein kinase C
 β, apolipoprotein E, protein phosphatase 2A, and prostaglandin D.
 Misregulation of these proteins may contribute to age-related memory
 deficits and neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, many proteases
 that play essential roles in regulating neuropeptide metabolism,
 amyloid precursor protein processing, and neuronal apoptosis
 are up-regulated in the aged brain and likely contribute significantly
 to brain aging. Finally, a subset of these genes whose expression is
 affected by aging are oppositely affected by exposure of mice to an
 enriched environment, suggesting that these genes may play important
 roles in learning and memory.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To understand how the human visual system analyzes images, it is
 essential to know the structure of the visual environment. In
 particular, natural images display consistent statistical properties
 that distinguish them from random luminance distributions. We have
 studied the geometric regularities of oriented elements (edges or line
 segments) present in an ensemble of visual scenes, asking how much
 information the presence of a segment in a particular location of the
 visual scene carries about the presence of a second segment at
 different relative positions and orientations. We observed strong
 long-range correlations in the distribution of oriented segments that
 extend over the whole visual field. We further show that a very simple
 geometric rule, cocircularity, predicts the arrangement of segments in
 natural scenes, and that different geometrical arrangements show
 relevant differences in their scaling properties. Our results show
 similarities to geometric features of previous physiological and
 psychophysical studies. We discuss the implications of these findings
 for theories of early vision.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Normal aging is associated with a significant reduction in
 cognitive function across primate species. However, the structural and
 molecular basis for this age-related decline in neural function has yet
 to be defined clearly. Extensive cell loss does not occur as a
 consequence of normal aging in human and nonhuman primate species. More
 recent studies have demonstrated significant reductions in functional
 neuronal markers in subcortical brain regions in primates as a
 consequence of aging, including dopaminergic and cholinergic systems,
 although corresponding losses in cortical innervation from these
 neurons have not been investigated. In the present study, we report
 that aging is associated with a significant 25% reduction in cortical
 innervation by cholinergic systems in rhesus monkeys
 (P < 0.001). Further, these age-related reductions
 are ameliorated by cellular delivery of human nerve growth factor to
 cholinergic somata in the basal forebrain, restoring levels of
 cholinergic innervation in the cortex to those of young monkeys
 (P = 0.89). Thus, (i) aging is
 associated with a significant reduction in cortical cholinergic
 innervation; (ii) this reduction is reversible by
 growth-factor delivery; and (iii) growth factors can
 remodel axonal terminal fields at a distance, representing a nontropic
 action of growth factors in modulating adult neuronal structure and
 function (i.e., administration of growth factors to cholinergic somata
 significantly increases axon density in terminal fields). These
 findings are relevant to potential clinical uses of growth factors to
 treat neurological disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The functional characteristics and cellular localization of
 the γaminobutyric acid (GABA) ρ1 receptor and its
 nonfunctional isoform ρ1Δ450 were investigated by expressing them
 as gene fusions with the enhanced version of the green fluorescent
 protein (GFP). Oocytes injected with ρ1-GFP had receptors that gated
 chloride channels when activated by GABA. The functional
 characteristics of these receptors were the same as for those of
 wild-type ρ1 receptors. Fluorescence, because of the chimeric
 receptors expressed, was over the whole oocyte but was more intense
 near the cell surface and more abundant in the animal hemisphere.
 Similar to the wild type, ρ1Δ450-GFP did not lead to the expression
 of functional GABA receptors, and injected oocytes failed to generate
 currents even after exposure to high concentrations of GABA.
 Nonetheless, the fluorescence displayed by oocytes expressing
 ρ1Δ450-GFP was distributed similarly to that of ρ1-GFP. Mammalian
 cells transfected with the ρ1-GFP or ρ1Δ450-GFP constructs showed
 mostly intracellularly distributed fluorescence in confocal microscope
 images. A sparse localization of fluorescence was observed in the
 plasma membrane regardless of the cell line used. We conclude that
 ρ1Δ450 is expressed and transported close to, and perhaps
 incorporated into, the plasma membrane. Thus, ρ1- and ρ1Δ450-GFP
 fusions provide a powerful tool to visualize the traffic of GABA type C
 receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estradiol protects against brain injury, neurodegeneration,
 and cognitive decline. Our previous work demonstrates that
 physiological levels of estradiol protect against stroke injury and
 that this protection may be mediated through receptor-dependent
 alterations of gene expression. In this report, we tested the
 hypothesis that estrogen receptors play a pivotal role in mediating
 neuroprotective actions of estradiol and dissected the potential
 biological roles of each estrogen receptor (ER) subtype, ERα and
 ERβ, in the injured brain. To investigate and delineate these
 mechanisms, we used ERα-knockout (ERαKO) and ERβ-knockout
 (ERβKO) mice in an animal model of stroke. We performed our studies
 by using a controlled endocrine paradigm, because
 endogenous levels of estradiol differ dramatically among
 ERαKO, ERβKO, and wild-type mice. We ovariectomized ERαKO,
 ERβKO, and the respective wild-type mice and implanted them with
 capsules filled with oil (vehicle) or a dose of 17β-estradiol that
 produces physiological hormone levels in serum. One week later, mice
 underwent ischemia. Our results demonstrate that deletion of ERα
 completely abolishes the protective actions of estradiol in all regions
 of the brain; whereas the ability of estradiol to protect against brain
 injury is totally preserved in the absence of ERβ. Thus, our results
 clearly establish that the ERα subtype is a critical mechanistic link
 in mediating the protective effects of physiological levels of
 estradiol in brain injury. Our discovery that ERα mediates protection
 of the brain carries far-reaching implications for the selective
 targeting of ERs in the treatment and prevention of neural dysfunction
 associated with normal aging or brain injury.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The endogenous opioid system has been implicated in
 sexual behavior, palatable intake, fear, and anxiety. The present study
 examined whether ovariectomized female transgenic
 preproenkephalin-knockout (PPEKO) mice and their wild-type and
 heterozygous controls displayed alterations in fear and anxiety
 paradigms, sucrose intake, and lordotic behavior. To examine stability
 of responding, three squads of the genotypes were tested across seasons
 over a 20-month period. In a fear-conditioning paradigm, PPEKO mice
 significantly increased freezing to both fear and fear + shock stimuli
 relative to controls. In the open field, PPEKO mice spent significantly
 less time and traversed significantly less distance in the center of an
 open field than wild-type controls. Further, PPEKO mice spent
 significantly less time and tended to be less active on the light side
 of a dark–light chamber than controls, indicating that deletion of the
 enkephalin gene resulted in exaggerated responses to fear or
 anxiety-provoking environments. These selective deficits were observed
 consistently across testing squads spanning 20 months and different
 seasons. In contrast, PPEKO mice failed to differ from corresponding
 controls in sucrose, chow, or water intake across a range
 (0.0001–20%) of sucrose concentrations and failed to differ in either
 lordotic or female approach to male behaviors when primed with
 estradiol and progesterone, thereby arguing strongly for the
 selectivity of a fear and anxiety deficit which was not caused by
 generalized and nonspecific debilitation. These transgenic data
 strongly suggest that opioids, and particularly enkephalin gene
 products, are acting naturally to inhibit fear and anxiety.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Typical neuroleptic drugs elicit their antipsychotic effects
 mainly by acting as antagonists at dopamine D2 receptors. Much of this
 activity is thought to occur in the cerebral cortex, where D2 receptors
 are found largely in inhibitory GABAergic neurons. Here we confirm this
 localization at the electron microscopic level, but additionally show
 that a subset of cortical interneurons with low or undetectable
 expression of D2 receptor isoforms are surrounded by astrocytic
 processes that strongly express D2 receptors. Ligand binding of
 isolated astrocyte preparations indicate that cortical astroglia
 account for approximately one-third of the total D2 receptor binding
 sites in the cortex, a proportion that we found conserved among rodent,
 monkey, and human tissues. Further, we show that the D2
 receptor-specific agonist, quinpirole, can induce Ca2+
 elevation in isolated cortical astrocytes in a pharmacologically
 reversible manner, thus implicating this receptor in the signaling
 mechanisms by which astrocytes communicate with each other as well as
 with neurons. The discovery of D2 receptors in astrocytes with a
 selective anatomical relationship to interneurons represents a
 neuron/glia substrate for cortical dopamine action in the adult
 cerebral cortex and a previously unrecognized site of action for
 antipsychotic drugs with affinities at the D2 receptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The A2AR is largely coexpressed with
 D2Rs and enkephalin mRNA in the striatum where it modulates
 dopaminergic activity. Activation of the A2AR antagonizes
 D2R-mediated behavioral and neurochemical effects in the
 basal ganglia through a mechanism that may involve direct
 A2AR–D2R interaction. However, whether the
 D2R is required for the A2AR to exert its
 neural function is an open question. In this study, we examined the
 role of D2Rs in A2AR-induced behavioral and
 cellular responses, by using genetic knockout (KO) models (mice
 deficient in A2ARs or D2Rs or both). Behavioral
 analysis shows that the A2AR agonist
 2–4-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5′-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine
 reduced spontaneous as well as amphetamine-induced locomotion in
 both D2 KO and wild-type mice. Conversely, the nonselective
 adenosine antagonist caffeine and the A2AR antagonist
 8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine produced motor stimulation in mice lacking
 the D2R, although the stimulation was significantly
 attentuated. At the cellular level, A2AR inactivation
 counteracted the increase in enkephalin expression in striatopallidal
 neurons caused by D2R deficiency. Consistent with the
 D2 KO phenotype, A2AR inactivation partially
 reversed both acute D2R antagonist (haloperidol)-induced
 catalepsy and chronic haloperidol-induced enkephalin mRNA expression.
 Together, these results demonstrate that A2ARs elicit
 behavioral and cellular responses despite either the genetic deficiency
 or pharmacological blockade of D2Rs. Thus,
 A2AR-mediated neural functions are partially independent of
 D2Rs. Moreover, endogenous adenosine acting at
 striatal A2ARs may be most accurately viewed as a
 facilitative modulator of striatal neuronal activity rather than simply
 as an inhibitory modulator of D2R neurotransmission.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The conditioning of cocaine's subjective actions with
 environmental stimuli may be a critical factor in long-lasting relapse
 risk associated with cocaine addiction. To study the significance of
 learning factors in persistent addictive behavior as well as the
 neurobiological basis of this phenomenon, rats were trained to
 associate discriminative stimuli (SD) with the availability
 of i.v. cocaine vs. nonrewarding saline solution, and then placed on
 extinction conditions during which the i.v. solutions and
 SDs were withheld. The effects of reexposure to the
 SD on the recovery of responding at the previously
 cocaine-paired lever and on Fos protein expression then were determined
 in two groups. One group was tested immediately after extinction,
 whereas rats in the second group were confined to their home cages for
 an additional 4 months before testing. In both groups, the cocaine
 SD, but not the non-reward SD, elicited strong
 recovery of responding and increased Fos immunoreactivity in the
 basolateral amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex (areas
 Cg1/Cg3). The response reinstatement and Fos expression induced
 by the cocaine SD were both reversed by selective
 dopamine D1 receptor antagonists. The undiminished
 efficacy of the cocaine SD to elicit drug-seeking behavior
 after 4 months of abstinence parallels the long-lasting nature of
 conditioned cue reactivity and cue-induced cocaine craving in
 humans, and confirms a significant role of learning factors in the
 long-lasting addictive potential of cocaine. Moreover, the results
 implicate D1-dependent neural mechanisms within the
 medial prefrontal cortex and basolateral amygdala as
 substrates for cocaine-seeking behavior elicited by cocaine-predictive
 environmental stimuli.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Abnormal dopaminergic transmission is implicated in
 schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and drug
 addiction. In an attempt to model aspects of these disorders, we have
 generated hyperdopaminergic mutant mice by reducing expression of the
 dopamine transporter (DAT) to 10% of wild-type levels (DAT knockdown).
 Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry and in vivo microdialysis
 revealed that released dopamine was cleared at a slow rate in knockdown
 mice, which resulted in a higher extracellular dopamine concentration.
 Unlike the DAT knockout mice, the DAT knockdown mice do not display a
 growth retardation phenotype. They have normal home cage activity but
 display hyperactivity and impaired response habituation in novel
 environments. In addition, we show that both the indirect dopamine
 receptor agonist amphetamine and the direct agonists apomorphine and
 quinpirole inhibit locomotor activity in the DAT knockdown mice,
 leading to the hypothesis that a shift in the balance between dopamine
 auto and heteroreceptor function may contribute to the therapeutic
 effect of psychostimulants in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effects of immunization with the second-generation cocaine
 immunoconjugate GND-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) or with the
 anti-cocaine mAb GNC92H2 were assessed in a model of acute
 cocaine-induced locomotor activity. After i.p. administration of
 cocaine⋅HCl (15 mg/kg), rats were tested in photocell cages, and
 stereotypy was rated to determine preimmunization drug response
 (baseline). Experimental animals were subjected to an immunization
 protocol with GND-KLH or treated with the mAb GNC92H2. Rats were then
 challenged with systemic cocaine, and their locomotor responses were
 again measured. Active immunization with GND-KLH produced a 76%
 decrease in the ambulatory measure (crossovers) in the experimental
 group and a 12% increase in the control group compared with baseline
 values. Also, stereotypic behavior was significantly suppressed in the
 vaccinated animals. Decreases in both measures were seen in the
 experimental group on two subsequent challenges. The maximum effect was
 observed at the time of the second challenge with a dramatic 80%
 decrease in crossovers. Treatment with GNC92H2 resulted in a 69%
 decrease in crossovers compared with baseline. This effect persisted
 across two additional challenges over 11 days with decreases of
 46–47%. In contrast, the control group showed increases of up to
 28%. Significant differences between groups were observed in the
 stereotypic measure in all three challenges. The results indicate that
 these immunopharmacotherapeutic agents have significant
 cocaine-blockade potential and therefore may offer an effective
 strategy for the treatment of cocaine abuse.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hypoxia is important in both biomedical and environmental contexts
 and necessitates rapid adaptive changes in metabolic organization.
 Mammals, as air breathers, have a limited capacity to withstand
 sustained exposure to hypoxia. By contrast, some aquatic animals, such
 as certain fishes, are routinely exposed and resistant to severe
 environmental hypoxia. Understanding the changes in gene expression in
 fishes exposed to hypoxic stress could reveal novel mechanisms of
 tolerance that may shed new light on hypoxia and ischemia in higher
 vertebrates. Using cDNA microarrays, we have studied gene expression in
 a hypoxia-tolerant burrow-dwelling goby fish, Gillichthys
 mirabilis. We show that a coherent picture of a complex
 transcriptional response can be generated for a nonmodel organism for
 which sequence data were unavailable. We demonstrate that:
 (i) although certain shifts in gene expression mirror
 changes in mammals, novel genes are differentially expressed in fish;
 and (ii) tissue-specific patterns of expression reflect
 the different metabolic roles of tissues during hypoxia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This study demonstrates, by using neutral comet assay and pulsed
 field gel electrophoresis, that hyperosmotic stress causes DNA damage
 in the form of double strand breaks (dsb). Different solutes increase
 the rate of DNA dsb to different degrees at identical strengths of
 hyperosmolality. Hyperosmolality in the form of elevated NaCl (HNa) is
 most potent in this regard, whereas hyperosmolality in the form of
 elevated urea (HU) does not cause DNA dsb. The amount of DNA dsb
 increases significantly as early as 15 min after the onset of HNa. By
 using neutral comet and DNA ladder assays, we show that this rapid
 induction of DNA damage is not attributable to apoptosis. We
 demonstrate that renal inner medullary cells are able to efficiently
 repair hyperosmotic DNA damage within 48 h after exposure to
 hyperosmolality. DNA repair correlates with cell survival and is
 repressed by 25 μM LY294002, an inhibitor of DNA-activated protein
 kinases. These results strongly suggest that the hyperosmotic stress
 resistance of renal inner medullary cells is based not only on
 adaptations that protect cellular proteins from osmotic damage but, in
 addition, on adaptations that compensate DNA damage and maintain
 genomic integrity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adipocyte complement-related protein (30 kDa) (Acrp30), a secreted
 protein of unknown function, is exclusively expressed in differentiated
 adipocytes; its mRNA is decreased in obese humans and mice. Here we
 describe novel pharmacological properties of the protease-generated
 globular head domain of Acrp30 (gAcrp30). Acute treatment of mice with
 gAcrp30 significantly decreased the elevated levels of plasma free
 fatty acids caused either by administration of a high fat test meal or
 by i.v. injection of Intralipid. This effect of gAcrp30 was caused, at
 least in part, by an acute increase in fatty acid oxidation by muscle.
 As a result, daily administration of a very low dose of gAcrp30 to mice
 consuming a high-fat/sucrose diet caused profound and sustainable
 weight reduction without affecting food intake. Thus, gAcrp30 is a
 novel pharmacological compound that controls energy homeostasis and
 exerts its effect primarily at the peripheral level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations in the sister of P-glycoprotein (Spgp) or bile salt
 export pump (BSEP) are associated with Progressive Familial
 Intrahepatic Cholestasis (PFIC2). Spgp is predominantly expressed in
 the canalicular membranes of liver. Consistent with in
 vitro evidence demonstrating the involvement of Spgp in bile
 salt transport, PFIC2 patients secrete less than 1% of biliary bile
 salts compared with normal infants. The disease rapidly progresses to
 hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation before adolescence. In
 this study, we show that the knockout of spgp gene in
 mice results in intrahepatic cholestasis, but with significantly less
 severity than PFIC2 in humans. Some unexpected characteristics are
 observed. Notably, although the secretion of cholic acid in mutant mice
 is greatly reduced (6% of wild-type), total bile salt output in mutant
 mice is about 30% of wild-type. Also, secretion of an unexpectedly
 large amount of tetra-hydroxylated bile acids (not detected in
 wild-type) is observed. These results suggest that hydroxylation and an
 alternative canalicular transport mechanism for bile acids compensate
 for the absence of Spgp function and protect the mutant mice from
 severe cholestatic damage. In addition, the
 spgp−/− mice display a significant
 increase in the secretion of cholesterol and phospholipids into the
 bile. This latter observation in spgp−/−
 mice suggests that intrahepatic, rather than intracanalicular, bile
 salts are the major driving force for the biliary lipid secretion. The
 spgp−/− mice thus provide a unique model
 for gaining new insights into therapeutic intervention for intrahepatic
 cholestasis and understanding mechanisms associated with lipid
 homeostasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT; EC 2.3.1.6) catalyzes the
 reversible synthesis of acetylcholine (ACh) from acetyl CoA and choline
 at cholinergic synapses. Mutations in genes encoding ChAT affecting
 motility exist in Caenorhabditis elegans
 and Drosophila, but no CHAT mutations
 have been observed in humans to date. Here we report that mutations in
 CHAT cause a congenital myasthenic syndrome associated
 with frequently fatal episodes of apnea (CMS-EA). Studies of the
 neuromuscular junction in this disease show a stimulation-dependent
 decrease of the amplitude of the miniature endplate potential and no
 deficiency of the ACh receptor. These findings point to a defect in ACh
 resynthesis or vesicular filling and to CHAT as one of
 the candidate genes. Direct sequencing of CHAT reveals
 10 recessive mutations in five patients with CMS-EA. One mutation
 (523insCC) is a frameshifting null mutation. Three mutations (I305T,
 R420C, and E441K) markedly reduce ChAT expression in COS cells. Kinetic
 studies of nine bacterially expressed ChAT mutants demonstrate that one
 mutant (E441K) lacks catalytic activity, and eight mutants (L210P,
 P211A, I305T, R420C, R482G, S498L, V506L, and R560H) have significantly
 impaired catalytic efficiencies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In shark heart, the Na+–Ca2+ exchanger
 serves as a major pathway for both Ca2+ influx and efflux,
 as there is only rudimentary sarcoplasmic reticulum in these hearts.
 The modulation of the exchanger by a β-adrenergic agonist in
 whole-cell clamped ventricular myocytes was compared with that of the
 Na+–Ca2+ exchanger blocker KB-R7943.
 Application of 5 μM isoproterenol and 10 μM KB-R7943 suppressed
 both the inward and the outward Na+–Ca2+
 exchanger current
 (INa−Ca). The
 isoproterenol effect was mimicked by 10 μM forskolin. Isoproterenol
 and forskolin shifted the reversal potential
 (Erev) of
 INa−Ca by
 approximately −23 mV and −30 mV, respectively. An equivalent
 suppression of outward
 INa−Ca by KB-R7943
 to that by isoproterenol produced a significantly smaller shift in
 Erev of about −4 mV. The ratio of inward to
 outward exchanger currents was also significantly larger in
 isoproterenol- than in control- and KB-R7943-treated myocytes. Our data
 suggest that the larger ratio of inward to outward exchanger currents
 as well as the larger shift in Erev with
 isoproterenol results from the enhanced efficacy of Ca2+
 efflux via the exchanger. The protein kinase A-mediated bimodal
 regulation of the exchanger in parallel with phosphorylation of the
 Ca2+ channel and enhancement of its current may have
 evolved to satisfy the evolutionary needs for accelerated contraction
 and relaxation in hearts of animals with vestigial sarcoplasmic
 Ca2+ release stores.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There are defined medullary, mesencephalic, hypothalamic, and
 thalamic functions in regulation of respiration, but knowledge of
 cortical control and the elements subserving the consciousness of
 breathlessness and air hunger is limited. In nine young adults, air
 hunger was produced acutely by CO2 inhalation. Comparisons
 were made with inhalation of a N2/O2 gas
 mixture with the same apparatus, and also with paced breathing, and
 with eyes closed rest. A network of activations in pons, midbrain
 (mesencephalic tegmentum, parabrachial nucleus, and periaqueductal
 gray), hypothalamus, limbic and paralimbic areas (amygdala and
 periamygdalar region) cingulate, parahippocampal and fusiform gyrus,
 and anterior insula were seen along with caudate nuclei and pulvinar
 activations. Strong deactivations were seen in dorsal cingulate,
 posterior cingulate, and prefrontal cortex. The striking response of
 limbic and paralimbic regions points to these structures having a
 singular role in the affective sequelae entrained by disturbance of
 basic respiratory control whereby a process of which we are normally
 unaware becomes a salient element of consciousness. These activations
 and deactivations include phylogenetically ancient areas of allocortex
 and transitional cortex that together with the
 amygdalar/periamygdalar region may subserve functions of emotional
 representation and regulation of breathing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Little is known about the physiological mechanisms subserving the
 experience of air hunger and the affective control of breathing in
 humans. Acute hunger for air after inhalation of CO2 was
 studied in nine healthy volunteers with positron emission tomography.
 Subjective breathlessness was manipulated while end-tidal
 CO2- was held constant. Subjects experienced a
 significantly greater sense of air hunger breathing through a face mask
 than through a mouthpiece. The statistical contrast between the two
 conditions delineated a distributed network of primarily
 limbic/paralimbic brain regions, including multiple foci in dorsal
 anterior and middle cingulate gyrus, insula/claustrum,
 amygdala/periamygdala, lingual and middle temporal gyrus,
 hypothalamus, pulvinar, and midbrain. This pattern of activations was
 confirmed by a correlational analysis with breathlessness ratings. The
 commonality of regions of mesencephalon, diencephalon and
 limbic/paralimbic areas involved in primal emotions engendered by the
 basic vegetative systems including hunger for air, thirst, hunger,
 pain, micturition, and sleep, is discussed with particular reference to
 the cingulate gyrus. A theory that the phylogenetic origin of
 consciousness came from primal emotions engendered by immediate threat
 to the existence of the organism is discussed along with an alternative
 hypothesis by Edelman that primary awareness emerged with processes of
 ongoing perceptual categorization giving rise to a scene [Edelman,
 G. M. (1992) Bright Air, Brilliant Fire (Penguin,
 London)].
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent neuroimaging and neurological data implicate cerebellum in
 nonmotor sensory, cognitive, vegetative, and affective functions. The
 present study assessed cerebellar responses when the urge to breathe is
 stimulated by inhaled CO2. Ventilation changes follow
 arterial blood partial pressure CO2 changes sensed by the
 medullary ventral respiratory group (VRG) and hypothalamus, entraining
 changes in midbrain, pons, thalamus, limbic, paralimbic, and insular
 regions. Nearly all these areas are known to connect anatomically with
 the cerebellum. Using positron emission tomography, we measured
 regional brain blood flow during acute CO2-induced
 breathlessness in humans. Separable physiological and subjective
 effects (air hunger) were assessed by comparisons with various
 respiratory control conditions. The conjoint physiological effects of
 hypercapnia and the consequent air hunger produced strong bilateral,
 near-midline activations of the cerebellum in anterior quadrangular,
 central, and lingula lobules, and in many areas of posterior
 quadrangular, tonsil, biventer, declive, and inferior semilunar
 lobules. The primal emotion of air hunger, dissociated from
 hypercapnia, activated midline regions of the central lobule. The
 distributed activity across the cerebellum is similar to that for
 thirst, hunger, and their satiation. Four possible interpretations of
 cerebellar function(s) here are that: it subserves implicit intentions
 to access air; it provides predictive internal models about the
 consequences of CO2 inhalation; it modulates emotional
 responses; and that while some cerebellar regions monitor sensory
 acquisition in the VRG (CO2 concentration), others
 influence VRG to adjust respiratory rate to optimize partial pressure
 CO2, and others still monitor and optimize the acquisition
 of other sensory data in service of air hunger aroused vigilance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Feedback regulation of photosynthesis by carbon metabolites has
 long been recognized, but the underlying cellular mechanisms that
 control this process remain unclear. By using an
 Arabidopsis cell culture, we show that a block in
 photosynthetic electron flux prevents the increase in transcript levels
 of chlorophyll a/b-binding protein and the small subunit of Rubisco
 that typically occurs when intracellular sugar levels are depleted. In
 contrast, the expression of the nitrate reductase gene, which is
 induced by sugars, is not affected. These findings were confirmed
 in planta by using Arabidopsis carrying
 the firefly luciferase reporter gene fused to the plastocyanin and
 chlorophyll a/b-binding protein 2 gene promoters. Transcription from
 both promoters increases on carbohydrate depletion. Blocking
 photosynthetic electron transport with 3-(3′,
 4′-dichlorophenyl)-1,1′-dimethylurea prevents this increase in
 transcription. We conclude that plastid-derived redox signaling can
 override the sugar-regulated expression of nuclear-encoded
 photosynthetic genes. In the sugar-response mutant, sucrose
 uncoupled 6 (sun6),
 plastocyanin-firefly luciferase transcription actually
 increases in response to exogenous sucrose rather than decreasing as in
 the wild type. Interestingly, plastid-derived redox signals do not
 influence this defective pattern of sugar-regulated gene expression in
 the sun6 mutant. A model, which invokes a positive
 inducer originating from the photosynthetic electron transport chain,
 is proposed to explain the nature of the plastid-derived signal.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A plastid-derived signal plays an important role in the coordinated
 expression of both nuclear- and chloroplast-localized genes that encode
 photosynthesis-related proteins. Arabidopsis GUN
 (genomes uncoupled) loci have been
 identified as components of plastid-to-nucleus signal transduction.
 Unlike wild-type plants, gun mutants have nuclear
 Lhcb1 expression in the absence of chloroplast
 development. We observed a synergistic phenotype in some
 gun double-mutant combinations, suggesting there are at
 least two independent pathways in plastid-to-nucleus signal
 transduction. There is a reduction of chlorophyll accumulation in
 gun4 and gun5 mutant plants, and a
 gun4gun5 double mutant shows an albino phenotype. We
 cloned the GUN5 gene, which encodes the ChlH subunit of
 Mg-chelatase. We also show that gun2 and
 gun3 are alleles of the known photomorphogenic mutants,
 hy1 and hy2, which are required for
 phytochromobilin synthesis from heme. These findings suggest that
 certain perturbations of the tetrapyrrole biosynthetic pathway generate
 a signal from chloroplasts that causes transcriptional repression of
 nuclear genes encoding plastid-localized proteins. The comparison of
 mutant phenotypes of gun5 and another Mg-chelatase
 subunit (ChlI) mutant suggests a specific function for ChlH protein in
 the plastid-signaling pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have investigated the origin of the Pto disease
 resistance (R) gene that was previously identified in
 the wild tomato species Lycopersicon pimpinellifolium
 and isolated by map-based cloning. Pto encodes a
 serine-threonine protein kinase that specifically recognizes strains of
 Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (Pst)
 that express the avirulence gene avrPto. We examined an
 accession of the distantly related wild species Lycopersicon
 hirsutum var. glabratum that exhibits
 avrPto-specific resistance to Pst. The
 Pst resistance of L. hirsutum was
 introgressed into a susceptible Lycopersicon esculentum
 background to create the near-isogenic line 96T133-3. Resistance to
 Pst(avrPto) in 96T133-3 was inherited as a single
 dominant locus and cosegregated with a restriction fragment length
 polymorphism detected by the Pto gene. This observation
 suggested that a member of the Pto gene family confers
 Pst(avrPto) resistance in this L.
 hirsutum line. Here we report the cloning and characterization
 of four members of the Pto family from 96T133-3. One
 gene (LhirPto) is 97% identical to Pto
 and encodes a catalytically active protein kinase that elicits a
 hypersensitive response when coexpressed with avrPto in
 leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana. In common with the Pto
 kinase, the LhirPto protein physically interacts with AvrPto and
 downstream members of the Pto signaling pathway. Our
 studies indicate that R genes of the protein kinase
 class may not evolve rapidly in response to pathogen pressure and
 rather that their ability to recognize specific Avr proteins can be
 highly conserved.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have shown that ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase, a
 member of the CYP88A subfamily of cytochrome P450 enzymes, catalyzes
 the three steps of the gibberellin biosynthetic pathway from
 ent-kaurenoic acid to GA12. A
 gibberellin-responsive barley mutant, grd5, accumulates
 ent-kaurenoic acid in developing grains. Three
 independent grd5 mutants contain mutations in a gene
 encoding a member of the CYP88A subfamily of cytochrome P450 enzymes,
 defined by the maize Dwarf3 protein. Mutation of the
 Dwarf3 gene gives rise to a gibberellin-responsive dwarf
 phenotype, but the lesion in the gibberellin biosynthesis pathway has
 not been identified. Arabidopsis thaliana has two
 CYP88A genes, both of which are expressed. Yeast strains
 expressing cDNAs encoding each of the two Arabidopsis
 and the barley CYP88A enzymes catalyze the three steps of the GA
 biosynthesis pathway from ent-kaurenoic acid to
 GA12. Sequence comparison suggests that the maize
 Dwarf3 locus also encodes ent-kaurenoic
 acid oxidase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Parasites have been argued to influence clutch size evolution, but
 past work and theory has largely focused on within-species optimization
 solutions rather than clearly addressing among-species variation. The
 effects of parasites on clutch size variation among species can be
 complex, however, because different parasites can induce age-specific
 differences in mortality that can cause clutch size to evolve in
 different directions. We provide a conceptual argument that differences
 in immunocompetence among species should integrate differences in
 overall levels of parasite-induced mortality to which a species is
 exposed. We test this assumption and show that mortality caused by
 parasites is positively correlated with immunocompetence measured by
 cell-mediated measures. Under life history theory, clutch size should
 increase with increased adult mortality and decrease with increased
 juvenile mortality. Using immunocompetence as a general assay of
 parasite-induced mortality, we tested these predictions by using data
 for 25 species. We found that clutch size increased strongly with adult
 immunocompetence. In contrast, clutch size decreased weakly with
 increased juvenile immunocompetence. But, immunocompetence of juveniles
 may be constrained by selection on adults, and, when we controlled for
 adult immunocompetence, clutch size decreased with juvenile
 immunocompetence. Thus, immunocompetence seems to reflect evolutionary
 differences in parasite virulence experienced by species, and
 differences in age-specific parasite virulence appears to exert
 opposite selection on clutch size evolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Clinical evidence suggests that control mechanisms for local and
 global attention are lateralized in the temporal–parietal cortex.
 However, in the human occipital (visual) cortex, the evidence for
 lateralized local/global attention is controversial. To clarify this
 matter, we used functional MRI to map activity in the human occipital
 cortex, during local and global attention, with sustained visual
 fixation. Data were analyzed in a flattened cortical format, relative
 to maps of retinotopy and spatial frequency peak tuning. Neither local
 nor global attention was lateralized in the occipital cortex. Instead,
 local attention and global attention appear to be special cases of
 visual spatial attention, which are mapped consistently with the maps
 of retinotopy and spatial frequency tuning, in multiple visual cortical
 areas.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recordings were obtained from the visual system of rats as
 they cycled normally between waking (W), slow-wave sleep (SWS), and
 rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Responses to flashes delivered by a
 light-emitting diode attached permanently to the skull were recorded
 through electrodes implanted on the cornea, in the chiasm, and on the
 cortex. The chiasm response reveals the temporal order in which the
 activated ganglion cell population exits the eyeball; as reported, this
 triphasic event is invariably short in latency (5–10 ms) and around
 300 ms in duration, called the histogram. Here we describe the
 differences in the histograms recorded during W, SWS, and REM. SWS
 histograms are always larger than W histograms, and an REM histogram
 can resemble either. In other words, the optic nerve response to a
 given stimulus is labile; its configuration depends on whether the rat
 is asleep or awake. We link this physiological information with the
 anatomical fact that the brain dorsal raphe region, which is known to
 have a sleep regulatory role, sends fibers to the rat retina and
 receives fibers from it. At the cortical electrode, the visual cortical
 response amplitudes also vary, being largest during SWS. This well
 known phenomenon often is explained by changes taking place at the
 thalamic level. However, in the rat, the labile cortical response
 covaries with the labile optic nerve response, which suggests the
 cortical response enhancement during SWS is determined more by what
 happens in the retina than by what happens in the thalamus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Classical eyeblink conditioning is a well-characterized model
 paradigm that engages the septohippocampal cholinergic system. This
 form of associative learning is impaired in normal aging and severely
 disrupted in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Some nicotinic cholinergic
 receptor subtypes are lost in AD, making the use of nicotinic
 allosterically potentiating ligands a promising therapeutic strategy.
 The allosterically potentiating ligand galantamine (Gal) modulates
 nicotinic cholinergic receptors to increase acetylcholine release as
 well as acting as an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. Gal was
 tested in two preclinical experiments. In Experiment 1 with 16 young
 and 16 older rabbits, Gal (3.0 mg/kg) was administered for 15 days
 during conditioning, and the drug significantly improved learning,
 reduced AChE levels, and increased nicotinic receptor binding. In
 Experiment 2, 53 retired breeder rabbits were tested over a 15-wk
 period in four conditions. Groups of rabbits received 0.0 (vehicle),
 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg Gal for the entire 15-wk period or 3.0 mg/kg Gal
 for 15 days and vehicle for the remainder of the experiment. Fifteen
 daily conditioning sessions and subsequent retention and relearning
 assessments were spaced at 1-month intervals. The dose of 3.0 mg/kg
 Gal ameliorated learning deficits significantly during acquisition and
 retention in the group receiving 3.0 mg/kg Gal continuously.
 Nicotinic receptor binding was significantly increased in rabbits
 treated for 15 days with 3.0 mg/kg Gal, and all Gal-treated rabbits
 had lower levels of brain AChE. The efficacy of Gal in a learning
 paradigm severely impaired in AD is consistent with outcomes in
 clinical studies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We studied the performance of young and senior subjects on a
 well known working memory task, the Operation Span. This is a dual-task
 in which subjects perform a memory task while simultaneously verifying
 simple equations. Positron-emission tomography scans were taken during
 performance. Both young and senior subjects demonstrated a cost in
 accuracy and latency in the Operation Span compared with performing
 each component task alone (math verification or memory only). Senior
 subjects were disproportionately impaired relative to young subjects on
 the dual-task. When brain activation was examined for senior subjects,
 we found regions in prefrontal cortex that were active in the
 dual-task, but not in the component tasks. Similar results were
 obtained for young subjects who performed relatively poorly on the
 dual-task; however, for young subjects who performed relatively well in
 the dual-task, we found no prefrontal regions that were active only in
 the dual-task. Results are discussed as they relate to the executive
 component of task switching.
DOC DONE!Abstract
These are intriguing times in the exploration of other
 solar-system bodies. Continuing discoveries about life on Earth and the
 return of data suggesting the presence of liquid water environments on
 or under the surfaces of other planets and moons have combined to
 suggest the significant possibility that extraterrestrial life may
 exist in this solar system. Similarly, not since the Viking missions of
 the mid-1970s has there been as great an appreciation for the potential
 for Earth life to contaminate other worlds. Current plans for the
 exploration of the solar system include constraints intended to prevent
 biological contamination from being spread by solar-system exploration
 missions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
These are intriguing times in the exploration of other
 solar-system bodies. Continuing discoveries about life on Earth and the
 return of data suggesting the presence of liquid water environments on
 or under the surfaces of other planets and moons have combined to
 suggest the significant possibility that extraterrestrial life may
 exist in this solar system. Similarly, not since the Viking missions of
 the mid-1970s has there been as great an appreciation for the potential
 for Earth life to contaminate other worlds. Current plans for the
 exploration of the solar system include constraints intended to prevent
 biological contamination from being spread by solar-system exploration
 missions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Combining Viking pressure and temperature data with Mars Orbital
 Laser Altimeter topography data, we have computed the fraction of the
 martian year during which pressure and temperature allow for liquid
 water to be stable on the martian surface. We find that liquid water
 would be stable within the Hellas and Argyre basin and over the
 northern lowlands equatorward of about 40°. The location with the
 maximum period of stable conditions for liquid water is in the
 southeastern portion of Utopia Planitia, where 34% of the year liquid
 water would be stable if it were present. Locations of stability appear
 to correlate with the distribution of valley networks.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amino acid analyses using HPLC of pristine interior pieces of the
 CI carbonaceous chondrites Orgueil and Ivuna have found that
 β-alanine, glycine, and γ-amino-n-butyric acid
 (ABA) are the most abundant amino acids in these two meteorites, with
 concentrations ranging from ≈600 to 2,000 parts per billion (ppb).
 Other α-amino acids such as alanine, α-ABA, α-aminoisobutyric
 acid (AIB), and isovaline are present only in trace amounts (<200
 ppb). Carbon isotopic measurements of β-alanine and glycine and the
 presence of racemic (D/L ≈ 1)
 alanine and β-ABA in Orgueil suggest that these amino acids are
 extraterrestrial in origin. In comparison to the CM carbonaceous
 chondrites Murchison and Murray, the amino acid composition of the CIs
 is strikingly distinct, suggesting that these meteorites came from a
 different type of parent body, possibly an extinct comet,
 than did the CM carbonaceous chondrites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
C—H stretching bands, νCH, in the infrared
 spectrum of single crystals of nominally high purity, of
 laboratory-grown MgO, and of natural upper mantle olivine, provide an
 “organic” signature that closely resembles the symmetrical and
 asymmetrical C—H stretching modes of aliphatic —CH2
 units. The νCH bands indicate that H2O and
 CO2, dissolved in the matrix of these minerals, converted
 to form H2 and chemically reduced C, which in turn formed
 C—H entities, probably through segregation into defects such as
 dislocations. Heating causes the C—H bonds to pyrolyze and the
 νCH bands to disappear, but annealing at 70°C causes
 them to reappear within a few days or weeks. Modeling dislocations in
 MgO suggests that the segregation of C can lead to Cx chains,
 x = 4, with the terminal C atoms anchored to the
 MgO matrix by bonding to two O−. Allowing H2
 to react with such Cx chains leads to
 [O2C(CH2)2CO2] or
 similar precipitates. It is suggested that such
 Cx—Hy—Oz entities represent protomolecules
 from which derive the short-chain carboxylic and dicarboxylic and the
 medium-chain fatty acids that have been solvent-extracted from crushed
 MgO and olivine single crystals, respectively. Thus, it appears that
 the hard, dense matrix of igneous minerals represents a medium in which
 protomolecular units can be assembled. During weathering of rocks, the
 protomolecular units turn into complex organic molecules. These
 processes may have provided stereochemically constrained organics to
 the early Earth that were crucial to the emergence of life.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The distinctive relations between biological activity and isotopic
 effect recorded in biomarkers (e.g., carbon and sulfur isotope ratios)
 have allowed scientists to suggest that life originated on this planet
 nearly 3.8 billion years ago. The existence of life on other planets
 may be similarly identified by geochemical biomarkers, including the
 oxygen isotope ratio of phosphate (δ18Op)
 presented here. At low near-surface temperatures, the exchange of
 oxygen isotopes between phosphate and water requires enzymatic
 catalysis. Because enzymes are indicative of cellular activity, the
 demonstration of enzyme-catalyzed PO4–H2O
 exchange is indicative of the presence of life. Results of laboratory
 experiments are presented that clearly show that
 δ18OP values of inorganic phosphate can be
 used to detect enzymatic activity and microbial metabolism of
 phosphate. Applications of δ18Op as a
 biomarker are presented for two Earth environments relevant to the
 search for extraterrestrial life: a shallow groundwater reservoir and a
 marine hydrothermal vent system. With the development of in
 situ analytical techniques and future planned sample return
 strategies, δ18Op may provide an important
 biosignature of the presence of life in extraterrestrial systems such
 as that on Mars.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Our selection of new super greenhouse gases to fill a putative
 “window” in a future Martian atmosphere relies on
 quantum-mechanical calculations. Our study indicates that if Mars could
 somehow acquire an Earth-like atmospheric composition and surface
 pressure, then an Earth-like temperature could be sustained by a
 mixture of five to seven fluorine compounds. Martian mining
 requirements for replenishing the fluorine could be comparable to
 current terrestrial extraction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The subseafloor at the mid-ocean ridge is predicted to be an
 excellent microbial habitat, because there is abundant space, fluid
 flow, and geochemical energy in the porous, hydrothermally influenced
 oceanic crust. These characteristics also make it a good analog for
 potential subsurface extraterrestrial habitats. Subseafloor
 environments created by the mixing of hot hydrothermal fluids and
 seawater are predicted to be particularly energy-rich, and
 hyperthermophilic microorganisms that broadly reflect such predictions
 are ejected from these systems in low-temperature (≈15°C),
 basalt-hosted diffuse effluents. Seven hyperthermophilic heterotrophs
 isolated from low-temperature diffuse fluids exiting the basaltic crust
 in and near two hydrothermal vent fields on the Endeavour Segment, Juan
 de Fuca Ridge, were compared phylogenetically and physiologically to
 six similarly enriched hyperthermophiles from samples associated with
 seafloor metal sulfide structures. The 13 organisms fell into four
 distinct groups: one group of two organisms corresponding to the genus
 Pyrococcus and three groups corresponding to the genus
 Thermococcus. Of these three groups, one was composed
 solely of sulfide-derived organisms, and the other two related groups
 were composed of subseafloor organisms. There was no evidence of
 restricted exchange of organisms between sulfide and subseafloor
 habitats, and therefore this phylogenetic distinction indicates a
 selective force operating between the two habitats. Hypotheses
 regarding the habitat differences were generated through comparison of
 the physiology of the two groups of hyperthermophiles; some potential
 differences between these habitats include fluid flow stability, metal
 ion concentrations, and sources of complex organic matter.
DOC DONE!Abstract
McKay et al. [(1996) Science 273,
 924–930] suggested that carbonate globules in the meteorite ALH84001
 contained the fossil remains of Martian microbes. We have characterized
 a subpopulation of magnetite (Fe3O4) crystals
 present in abundance within the Fe-rich rims of these carbonate
 globules. We find these Martian magnetites to be both chemically and
 physically identical to terrestrial, biogenically precipitated,
 intracellular magnetites produced by magnetotactic bacteria strain
 MV-1. Specifically, both magnetite populations are single-domain and
 chemically pure, and exhibit a unique crystal habit we describe as
 truncated hexa-octahedral. There are no known reports of inorganic
 processes to explain the observation of truncated hexa-octahedral
 magnetites in a terrestrial sample. In bacteria strain MV-1 their
 presence is therefore likely a product of Natural Selection. Unless
 there is an unknown and unexplained inorganic process on Mars that is
 conspicuously absent on the Earth and forms truncated hexa-octahedral
 magnetites, we suggest that these magnetite crystals in the Martian
 meteorite ALH84001 were likely produced by a biogenic process. As such,
 these crystals are interpreted as Martian magnetofossils and constitute
 evidence of the oldest life yet found.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The evolution of O2-producing cyanobacteria that
 use water as terminal reductant transformed Earth's atmosphere to one
 suitable for the evolution of aerobic metabolism and complex life. The
 innovation of water oxidation freed photosynthesis to invade new
 environments and visibly changed the face of the Earth. We offer a new
 hypothesis for how this process evolved, which identifies two critical
 roles for carbon dioxide in the Archean period. First, we present a
 thermodynamic analysis showing that bicarbonate (formed by dissolution
 of CO2) is a more efficient alternative substrate than
 water for O2 production by oxygenic phototrophs. This
 analysis clarifies the origin of the long debated “bicarbonate
 effect” on photosynthetic O2 production. We propose that
 bicarbonate was the thermodynamically preferred reductant before water
 in the evolution of oxygenic photosynthesis. Second, we have examined
 the speciation of manganese(II) and bicarbonate in water, and find that
 they form Mn-bicarbonate clusters as the major species under conditions
 that model the chemistry of the Archean sea. These clusters have been
 found to be highly efficient precursors for the assembly of the
 tetramanganese-oxide core of the water-oxidizing enzyme during
 biogenesis. We show that these clusters can be oxidized at
 electrochemical potentials that are accessible to anoxygenic
 phototrophs and thus the most likely building blocks for assembly of
 the first O2 evolving photoreaction center, most likely
 originating from green nonsulfur bacteria before the evolution of
 cyanobacteria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The presence of magnetite crystal chains, considered missing
 evidence for the biological origin of magnetite in ALH84001
 [Thomas-Keprta, K. L., Bazylinski, D. A., Kirschvink,
 J. L., Clemett, S. J., McKay, D. S., Wentworth, S.
 J., Vali, H., Gibson, E. K., Jr., & Romanek, C. S. (2000)
 Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 64, 4049–4081], is
 demonstrated by high-power stereo backscattered scanning electron
 microscopy. Five characteristics of such chains (uniform crystal size
 and shape within chains, gaps between crystals, orientation of
 elongated crystals along the chain axis, flexibility of chains, and a
 halo that is a possible remnant of a membrane around chains), observed
 or inferred to be present in magnetotactic bacteria but incompatible
 with a nonbiological origin, are shown to be present. Although it is
 unlikely that magnetotactic bacteria were ever alive in ALH84001,
 decomposed remains of such organisms could have been deposited in
 cracks in the rock while it was still on the surface on Mars.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding dynamic conditions in the Solar Nebula is the
 key to prediction of the material to be found in comets. We suggest
 that a dynamic, large-scale circulation pattern brings processed dust
 and gas from the inner nebula back out into the region of cometesimal
 formation—extending possibly hundreds of astronomical units (AU) from
 the sun—and that the composition of comets is determined by a chemical
 reaction network closely coupled to the dynamic transport of dust and
 gas in the system. This scenario is supported by laboratory studies of
 Mg silicates and the astronomical data for comets and for
 protoplanetary disks associated with young stars, which demonstrate
 that annealing of nebular silicates must occur in conjunction with a
 large-scale circulation. Mass recycling of dust should have a
 significant effect on the chemical kinetics of the outer nebula by
 introducing reduced, gas-phase species produced in the higher
 temperature and pressure environment of the inner nebula, along with
 freshly processed grains with “clean” catalytic surfaces to the
 region of cometesimal formation. Because comets probably form
 throughout the lifetime of the Solar Nebula and processed (crystalline)
 grains are not immediately available for incorporation into the first
 generation of comets, an increasing fraction of dust incorporated into
 a growing comet should be crystalline olivine and this fraction can
 serve as a crude chronometer of the relative ages of comets. The
 formation and evolution of key organic and biogenic molecules in comets
 are potentially of great consequence to astrobiology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding dynamic conditions in the Solar Nebula is the
 key to prediction of the material to be found in comets. We suggest
 that a dynamic, large-scale circulation pattern brings processed dust
 and gas from the inner nebula back out into the region of cometesimal
 formation—extending possibly hundreds of astronomical units (AU) from
 the sun—and that the composition of comets is determined by a chemical
 reaction network closely coupled to the dynamic transport of dust and
 gas in the system. This scenario is supported by laboratory studies of
 Mg silicates and the astronomical data for comets and for
 protoplanetary disks associated with young stars, which demonstrate
 that annealing of nebular silicates must occur in conjunction with a
 large-scale circulation. Mass recycling of dust should have a
 significant effect on the chemical kinetics of the outer nebula by
 introducing reduced, gas-phase species produced in the higher
 temperature and pressure environment of the inner nebula, along with
 freshly processed grains with “clean” catalytic surfaces to the
 region of cometesimal formation. Because comets probably form
 throughout the lifetime of the Solar Nebula and processed (crystalline)
 grains are not immediately available for incorporation into the first
 generation of comets, an increasing fraction of dust incorporated into
 a growing comet should be crystalline olivine and this fraction can
 serve as a crude chronometer of the relative ages of comets. The
 formation and evolution of key organic and biogenic molecules in comets
 are potentially of great consequence to astrobiology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Combining Viking pressure and temperature data with Mars Orbital
 Laser Altimeter topography data, we have computed the fraction of the
 martian year during which pressure and temperature allow for liquid
 water to be stable on the martian surface. We find that liquid water
 would be stable within the Hellas and Argyre basin and over the
 northern lowlands equatorward of about 40°. The location with the
 maximum period of stable conditions for liquid water is in the
 southeastern portion of Utopia Planitia, where 34% of the year liquid
 water would be stable if it were present. Locations of stability appear
 to correlate with the distribution of valley networks.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amino acid analyses using HPLC of pristine interior pieces of the
 CI carbonaceous chondrites Orgueil and Ivuna have found that
 β-alanine, glycine, and γ-amino-n-butyric acid
 (ABA) are the most abundant amino acids in these two meteorites, with
 concentrations ranging from ≈600 to 2,000 parts per billion (ppb).
 Other α-amino acids such as alanine, α-ABA, α-aminoisobutyric
 acid (AIB), and isovaline are present only in trace amounts (<200
 ppb). Carbon isotopic measurements of β-alanine and glycine and the
 presence of racemic (D/L ≈ 1)
 alanine and β-ABA in Orgueil suggest that these amino acids are
 extraterrestrial in origin. In comparison to the CM carbonaceous
 chondrites Murchison and Murray, the amino acid composition of the CIs
 is strikingly distinct, suggesting that these meteorites came from a
 different type of parent body, possibly an extinct comet,
 than did the CM carbonaceous chondrites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
C—H stretching bands, νCH, in the infrared
 spectrum of single crystals of nominally high purity, of
 laboratory-grown MgO, and of natural upper mantle olivine, provide an
 “organic” signature that closely resembles the symmetrical and
 asymmetrical C—H stretching modes of aliphatic —CH2
 units. The νCH bands indicate that H2O and
 CO2, dissolved in the matrix of these minerals, converted
 to form H2 and chemically reduced C, which in turn formed
 C—H entities, probably through segregation into defects such as
 dislocations. Heating causes the C—H bonds to pyrolyze and the
 νCH bands to disappear, but annealing at 70°C causes
 them to reappear within a few days or weeks. Modeling dislocations in
 MgO suggests that the segregation of C can lead to Cx chains,
 x = 4, with the terminal C atoms anchored to the
 MgO matrix by bonding to two O−. Allowing H2
 to react with such Cx chains leads to
 [O2C(CH2)2CO2] or
 similar precipitates. It is suggested that such
 Cx—Hy—Oz entities represent protomolecules
 from which derive the short-chain carboxylic and dicarboxylic and the
 medium-chain fatty acids that have been solvent-extracted from crushed
 MgO and olivine single crystals, respectively. Thus, it appears that
 the hard, dense matrix of igneous minerals represents a medium in which
 protomolecular units can be assembled. During weathering of rocks, the
 protomolecular units turn into complex organic molecules. These
 processes may have provided stereochemically constrained organics to
 the early Earth that were crucial to the emergence of life.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effect of a solvation on the thermodynamics and kinetics
 of polyalanine (Ala12) is explored on the basis of its
 energy landscapes in vacuum and in an aqueous solution. Both energy
 landscapes are characterized by two basins, one associated with
 α-helical structures and the other with coil and β-structures of
 the peptide. In both environments, the basin that corresponds to the
 α-helical structure is considerably narrower than the basin
 corresponding to the β-state, reflecting their different
 contributions to the entropy of the peptide. In vacuum, the α-helical
 state of Ala12 constitutes the native state, in agreement
 with common helical propensity scales, whereas in the aqueous medium,
 the α-helical state is destabilized, and the β-state becomes the
 native state. Thus solvation has a dramatic effect on the energy
 landscape of this peptide, resulting in an inverted stability of the
 two states. Different folding and unfolding time scales for
 Ala12 in hydrophilic and hydrophobic chemical environments
 are caused by the higher entropy of the native state in water relative
 to vacuum. The concept of a helical propensity has to be extended to
 incorporate environmental solvent effects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The gas phase and aqueous thermochemistry and reactivity of
 nitroxyl (nitrosyl hydride, HNO) were elucidated with
 multiconfigurational self-consistent field and hybrid density
 functional theory calculations and continuum solvation methods. The
 pKa of HNO is predicted to be 7.2 ± 1.0, considerably
 different from the value of 4.7 reported from pulse radiolysis
 experiments. The ground-state triplet nature of NO−
 affects the rates of acid-base chemistry of the HNO/NO−
 couple. HNO is highly reactive toward dimerization and addition of soft
 nucleophiles but is predicted to undergo negligible hydration
 (Keq = 6.9 × 10−5).
 HNO is predicted to exist as a discrete species in solution and is a
 viable participant in the chemical biology of nitric oxide and
 derivatives.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The distinctive relations between biological activity and isotopic
 effect recorded in biomarkers (e.g., carbon and sulfur isotope ratios)
 have allowed scientists to suggest that life originated on this planet
 nearly 3.8 billion years ago. The existence of life on other planets
 may be similarly identified by geochemical biomarkers, including the
 oxygen isotope ratio of phosphate (δ18Op)
 presented here. At low near-surface temperatures, the exchange of
 oxygen isotopes between phosphate and water requires enzymatic
 catalysis. Because enzymes are indicative of cellular activity, the
 demonstration of enzyme-catalyzed PO4–H2O
 exchange is indicative of the presence of life. Results of laboratory
 experiments are presented that clearly show that
 δ18OP values of inorganic phosphate can be
 used to detect enzymatic activity and microbial metabolism of
 phosphate. Applications of δ18Op as a
 biomarker are presented for two Earth environments relevant to the
 search for extraterrestrial life: a shallow groundwater reservoir and a
 marine hydrothermal vent system. With the development of in
 situ analytical techniques and future planned sample return
 strategies, δ18Op may provide an important
 biosignature of the presence of life in extraterrestrial systems such
 as that on Mars.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Our selection of new super greenhouse gases to fill a putative
 “window” in a future Martian atmosphere relies on
 quantum-mechanical calculations. Our study indicates that if Mars could
 somehow acquire an Earth-like atmospheric composition and surface
 pressure, then an Earth-like temperature could be sustained by a
 mixture of five to seven fluorine compounds. Martian mining
 requirements for replenishing the fluorine could be comparable to
 current terrestrial extraction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Month of birth influences adult life expectancy at ages 50+. Why?
 In two countries of the Northern Hemisphere–Austria and
 Denmark–people born in autumn (October–December) live longer than
 those born in spring (April–June). Data for Australia show that, in
 the Southern Hemisphere, the pattern is shifted by half a year. The
 lifespan pattern of British immigrants to Australia is similar to that
 of Austrians and Danes and significantly different from that of
 Australians. These findings are based on population data with more than
 a million observations and little or no selectivity. The differences in
 lifespan are independent of the seasonal distribution of deaths and the
 social differences in the seasonal distribution of births. In the
 Northern Hemisphere, the excess mortality in the first year of life of
 infants born in spring does not support the explanation of selective
 infant survival. Instead, remaining life expectancy at age 50 appears
 to depend on factors that arise in utero or early in
 infancy and that increase susceptibility to diseases later in life.
 This result is consistent with the finding that, at the turn of the
 last century, infants born in autumn had higher birth weights than
 those born in other seasons. Furthermore, differences in adult lifespan
 by month of birth decrease over time and are significantly smaller in
 more recent cohorts, which benefited from substantial improvements in
 maternal and infant health.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have systematically characterized gene expression patterns in 49
 adult and embryonic mouse tissues by using cDNA microarrays with 18,816
 mouse cDNAs. Cluster analysis defined sets of genes that were expressed
 ubiquitously or in similar groups of tissues such as digestive organs
 and muscle. Clustering of expression profiles was observed in embryonic
 brain, postnatal cerebellum, and adult olfactory bulb, reflecting
 similarities in neurogenesis and remodeling. Finally, clustering genes
 coding for known enzymes into 78 metabolic pathways revealed a
 surprising coordination of expression within each pathway among
 different tissues. On the other hand, a more detailed examination of
 glycolysis revealed tissue-specific differences in profiles of key
 regulatory enzymes. Thus, by surveying global gene expression by using
 microarrays with a large number of elements, we provide insights into
 the commonality and diversity of pathways responsible for the
 development and maintenance of the mammalian body plan.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII (MPS VII; Sly syndrome) is an
 autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder due to an inherited
 deficiency of β-glucuronidase. A naturally occurring mouse model for
 this disease was discovered at The Jackson Laboratory and shown to be
 due to homozygosity for a 1-bp deletion in exon 10 of the
 gus gene. The murine model MPS VII
 (gusmps/mps) has been very well
 characterized and used extensively to evaluate experimental strategies
 for lysosomal storage diseases, including bone marrow transplantation,
 enzyme replacement therapy, and gene therapy. To enhance the value of
 this model for enzyme and gene therapy, we produced a transgenic mouse
 expressing the human β-glucuronidase cDNA with an amino acid
 substitution at the active site nucleophile (E540A) and bred it onto
 the MPS VII (gusmps/mps) background. We
 demonstrate here that the mutant mice bearing the active site mutant
 human transgene retain the clinical, morphological, biochemical, and
 histopathological characteristics of the original MPS VII
 (gusmps/mps) mouse. However, they are now
 tolerant to immune challenge with human β-glucuronidase. This
 “tolerant MPS VII mouse model” should be useful for preclinical
 trials evaluating the effectiveness of enzyme and/or gene therapy
 with the human gene products likely to be administered to human
 patients with MPS VII.
DOC DONE!Abstract
pRB activates transcription by a poorly understood mechanism that
 involves relieving negative regulation of the promoter specificity
 factor Sp1. We show here that MDM2 inhibits Sp1-mediated transcription,
 that MDM2 binds directly to Sp1 in vitro as well as
 in vivo, and that MDM2 inhibits the DNA-binding activity
 of Sp1. Forced expression of pRB relieves MDM2-mediated repression, and
 interaction of pRB with the MDM2-Sp1 complex releases Sp1 and restores
 DNA binding. These results suggest a model in which the opposing
 activities of MDM2 and pRB regulate Sp1 DNA-binding and transcriptional
 activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A general strategy is described for designing proteins that self
 assemble into large symmetrical nanomaterials, including molecular
 cages, filaments, layers, and porous materials. In this strategy, one
 molecule of protein A, which naturally forms a self-assembling
 oligomer, An, is fused rigidly to one molecule of protein
 B, which forms another self-assembling oligomer, Bm. The
 result is a fusion protein, A-B, which self assembles with other
 identical copies of itself into a designed nanohedral particle or
 material, (A-B)p. The strategy is demonstrated through the
 design, production, and characterization of two fusion proteins: a
 49-kDa protein designed to assemble into a cage approximately 15 nm
 across, and a 44-kDa protein designed to assemble into long filaments
 approximately 4 nm wide. The strategy opens a way to create a wide
 variety of potentially useful protein-based materials, some of which
 share similar features with natural biological assemblies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The 24 nucleotides comprising the carbohydrate-recognition domain
 of Maackia amurensis hemagglutinin (MAH) cDNA were
 randomly mutated. The mutant lectins were expressed as
 glutathione-S-transferase fusion proteins in
 Escherichia coli and 16 clones were randomly chosen.
 Although all of 16 recombinant lectins reacted strongly with anti-MAH
 polyclonal antibody, the carbohydrate-recognition domain of each was
 unique. As shown by agglutination studies, each mutant MAH lectin was
 able to bind to erythrocytes from one or more of five animal species in
 very distinct patterns. Thus, novel plant lectin libraries can be used
 to discriminate in a highly specific manner among a variety of cell
 types. This technology may prove to be very useful in a number of
 different applications requiring a high level of specificity in cell
 identification.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The gas phase and aqueous thermochemistry and reactivity of
 nitroxyl (nitrosyl hydride, HNO) were elucidated with
 multiconfigurational self-consistent field and hybrid density
 functional theory calculations and continuum solvation methods. The
 pKa of HNO is predicted to be 7.2 ± 1.0, considerably
 different from the value of 4.7 reported from pulse radiolysis
 experiments. The ground-state triplet nature of NO−
 affects the rates of acid-base chemistry of the HNO/NO−
 couple. HNO is highly reactive toward dimerization and addition of soft
 nucleophiles but is predicted to undergo negligible hydration
 (Keq = 6.9 × 10−5).
 HNO is predicted to exist as a discrete species in solution and is a
 viable participant in the chemical biology of nitric oxide and
 derivatives.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pierisin-1 is an 850-aa cytotoxic protein found in the cabbage
 butterfly, Pieris rapae, and has been suggested to
 consist of an N-terminal region with ADP-ribosyltransferase domain and
 of a C-terminal region that might have a receptor-binding domain. To
 elucidate the role of each region, we investigated the functions of
 various fragments of pierisin-1. In vitro expressed
 polypeptide consisting of amino acid residues 1–233 or 234–850 of
 pierisin-1 alone did not show cytotoxicity against human cervical
 carcinoma HeLa cells. However, the presence of both polypeptides in the
 culture medium showed some of the original cytotoxic activity.
 Introduction of the N-terminal polypeptide alone by electroporation
 also induced cell death in HeLa cells, and even in the mouse melanoma
 MEB4 cells insensitive to pierisin-1. Thus, the N-terminal region has a
 principal role in the cytotoxicity of pierisin-1 inside mammalian
 cells. Analyses of incorporated pierisin-1 indicated that the entire
 protein, regardless of whether it consisted of a single polypeptide or
 two separate N- and C-terminal polypeptides, was incorporated into HeLa
 cells. However, neither of the terminal polypeptides was incorporated
 when each polypeptide was present separately. These findings indicate
 that the C-terminal region is important for the incorporation of
 pierisin-1. Moreover, presence of receptor for pierisin-1 in the lipid
 fraction of cell membrane was suggested. The cytotoxic effects of
 pierisin-1 were enhanced by previous treatment with trypsin, producing
 “nicked” pierisin-1. Generation of the N-terminal fragment in
 HeLa cells was detected after application of intact entire molecule of
 pierisin-1. From the above observations, it is suggested that after
 incorporation of pierisin-1 into the cell by interaction of its
 C-terminal region with the receptor in the cell membrane, the entire
 protein is cleaved into the N- and C-terminal fragments with
 intracellular protease, and the N-terminal fragment then exhibits
 cytotoxicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cd1 nitrite reductase catalyzes the conversion of
 nitrite to NO in denitrifying bacteria. Reduction of the substrate
 occurs at the d1-heme site, which faces on the distal side
 some residues thought to be essential for substrate binding and
 catalysis. We report the results obtained by mutating to Ala the two
 invariant active site histidines, His-327 and His-369, of the enzyme
 from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Both mutants have lost
 nitrite reductase activity but maintain the ability to reduce
 O2 to water. Nitrite reductase activity is impaired because
 of the accumulation of a catalytically inactive form, possibly because
 the productive displacement of NO from the ferric d1-heme
 iron is impaired. Moreover, the two distal His play different roles in
 catalysis; His-369 is absolutely essential for the stability of the
 Michaelis complex. The structures of both mutants show
 (i) the new side chain in the active site,
 (ii) a loss of density of Tyr-10, which slipped away
 with the N-terminal arm, and (iii) a large topological
 change in the whole c-heme domain, which is displaced 20 Å from the
 position occupied in the wild-type enzyme. We conclude that the two
 invariant His play a crucial role in the activity and the structural
 organization of cd1 nitrite reductase from P.
 aeruginosa.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) is expressed on the
 surface of astrocytes, where its homophilic binding leads to the
 activation of the transcription factor NF-κB. Transfection of
 astrocytes with a construct encompassing the transmembrane region and
 the cytoplasmic domain of N-CAM (designated Tm-Cyto, amino acids
 685–839 in the full-length molecule) inhibited this activation up to
 40%, and inhibited N-CAM-induced translocation of NF-κB to the
 nucleus. N-CAM also activated NF-κB in astrocytes from N-CAM knockout
 mice, presumably through binding to a heterophile. This activation,
 however, was not blocked by Tm-Cyto expression, indicating that the
 inhibitory effect of the Tm-Cyto construct is specific for cell surface
 N-CAM. Deletions and point mutations of the cytoplasmic portion of the
 Tm-Cyto construct indicated that the region between amino acids 780 and
 800 were essential for inhibitory activity. This region contains four
 threonines (788, 793, 794, and 797). Mutation to alanine of T788, T794,
 or T797, but not T793, abolished inhibitory activity, as did mutation
 of T788 or T797 to aspartic acid. A Tm-Cyto construct with T794 mutated
 to aspartic acid retained inhibitory activity but did not itself induce
 a constitutive NF-κB response. This result suggests that
 phosphorylation of T794 may be necessary but is not the triggering
 event. Overall, these findings define a short segment of the N-CAM
 cytoplasmic domain that is critical for N-CAM-induced activation of
 NF-κB and may be important in other N-CAM-mediated signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Squalene epoxidase, a membrane-associated enzyme that converts
 squalene to squalene 2,3-oxide, plays an important role in the
 maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis. In 1957, Bloch and colleagues
 identified a factor from rat liver cytosol termed “supernatant
 protein factor (SPF),” which promotes the squalene epoxidation
 catalyzed by rat liver microsomes with oxygen, NADPH, FAD, and
 phospholipid [Tchen, T. T. & Bloch, K. (1957) J.
 Biol. Chem. 226, 921–930]. Although purification of SPF by
 11,000-fold was reported, no information is so far available on the
 primary structure or biological function of SPF. Here we report the
 cDNA cloning and expression of SPF from rat and human. The encoded
 protein of 403 amino acids belongs to a family of cytosolic
 lipid-binding/transfer proteins such as α-tocopherol transfer
 protein, cellular retinal binding protein, yeast phosphatidylinositol
 transfer protein (Sec14p), and squid retinal binding protein.
 Recombinant SPF produced in Escherichia coli enhances
 microsomal squalene epoxidase activity and promotes intermembrane
 transfer of squalene in vitro. SPF mRNA is expressed
 abundantly in the liver and small intestine, both of which are
 important sites of cholesterol biosynthesis. SPF is expressed
 significantly in isolated hepatocytes, but the expression level was
 markedly decreased after 48 h of in vitro culture.
 Moreover, SPF was not detectable in most of the cell lines tested,
 including HepG2 and McARH7777 hepatomas. Transfection of SPF cDNA
 in McARH7777 significantly stimulated de novo
 cholesterol biosynthesis. These data suggest that SPF is a
 cytosolic squalene transfer protein capable of regulating
 cholesterol biosynthesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although many polar residues are directly involved in transmembrane
 protein functions, the extent to which they contribute to more general
 structural features is still unclear. Previous studies have
 demonstrated that asparagine residues can drive transmembrane helix
 association through interhelical hydrogen bonding [Choma, C.,
 Gratkowski, H., Lear, J. D. & DeGrado, W. F. (2000)
 Nat. Struct. Biol. 7, 161–166; and Zhou, F. X.,
 Cocco, M. J., Russ, W. P., Brunger, A. T. & Engelman,
 D. M. (2000) Nat. Struct. Biol. 7, 154–160]. We have
 studied the ability of other polar residues to promote helix
 association in detergent micelles and in biological membranes. Our
 results show that polyleucine sequences with Asn, Asp, Gln, Glu, and
 His, residues capable of being simultaneously hydrogen bond donors and
 acceptors, form homo- or heterooligomers. In contrast, polyleucine
 sequences with Ser, Thr, and Tyr do not associate more than the
 polyleucine sequence alone. The results therefore provide experimental
 evidence that interactions between polar residues in the helices of
 transmembrane proteins may serve to provide structural stability and
 oligomerization specificity. Furthermore, such interactions can allow
 structural flexibility required for the function of some membrane
 proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two classes of human G protein-coupled receptors, cysteinyl
 leukotriene 1 (CysLT1) and CysLT2 receptors,
 recently have been characterized and cloned. Because the
 CysLT1 receptor blockers are effective in treating human
 bronchial asthma and the mouse is often used to model human diseases,
 we isolated the mouse CysLT1 receptor from a mouse lung
 cDNA library and found two isoforms. A short isoform cDNA containing
 two exons encodes a polypeptide of 339 aa with 87.3% amino acid
 identity to the human CysLT1 receptor. A long isoform has
 two additional exons and an in-frame upstream start codon resulting in
 a 13-aa extension at the N terminus. Northern blot analysis revealed
 that the mouse CysLT1 receptor mRNA is expressed in lung
 and skin; and reverse transcription–PCR showed wide expression of
 the long isoform with the strongest presence in lung and skin. The gene
 for the mouse CysLT1 receptor was mapped to band XD.
 Leukotriene (LT) D4 induced intracellular calcium
 mobilization in Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing either
 isoform of the mouse CysLT1 receptor cDNA. This agonist
 effect of LTD4 was fully inhibited by the
 CysLT1 receptor antagonist, MK-571. Microsomal membranes
 from each transformant showed a single class of binding sites for
 [3H]LTD4; and the binding was blocked by
 unlabeled LTs, with the rank order of affinities being LTD4
 >> LTE4 = LTC4 >> LTB4.
 Thus, the dominant mouse isoform with the N-terminal amino acid
 extension encoded by an additional exon has the same ligand response
 profile as the spliced form and the human receptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Arabidopsis cyt1 mutants have a complex phenotype
 indicative of a severe defect in cell wall biogenesis. Mutant embryos
 arrest as wide, heart-shaped structures characterized by ectopic
 accumulation of callose and the occurrence of incomplete cell walls.
 Texture and thickness of the cell walls are irregular, and unesterified
 pectins show an abnormally diffuse distribution. To determine the
 molecular basis of these defects, we have cloned the
 CYT1 gene by a map-based approach and found that it
 encodes mannose-1-phosphate guanylyltransferase. A weak mutation in the
 same gene, called vtc1, has previously been identified
 on the basis of ozone sensitivity due to reduced levels of ascorbic
 acid. Mutant cyt1 embryos are deficient in
 N-glycosylation and have an altered composition of cell wall
 polysaccharides. Most notably, they show a 5-fold decrease in cellulose
 content. Characteristic aspects of the cyt1 phenotype,
 including radial swelling and accumulation of callose, can be mimicked
 with the inhibitor of N-glycosylation, tunicamycin. Our results suggest
 that N-glycosylation is required for cellulose biosynthesis and that a
 deficiency in this process can account for most phenotypic features of
 cyt1 embryos.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two critical requirements for developing methods for the
 site-specific incorporation of amino acid analogues into proteins
 in vivo are (i) a suppressor tRNA that is
 not aminoacylated by any of the endogenous aminoacyl-tRNA
 synthetases (aaRSs) and (ii) an aminoacyl-tRNA
 synthetase that aminoacylates the suppressor tRNA but no other tRNA in
 the cell. Here we describe two such aaRS–suppressor tRNA pairs, one
 for use in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and
 another for use in Escherichia coli. The “21st
 synthetase–tRNA pairs” include E. coli
 glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase (GlnRS) along with an amber suppressor
 derived from human initiator tRNA, for use in yeast, and mutants of the
 yeast tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase (TyrRS) along with an amber suppressor
 derived from E. coli initiator tRNA, for use in
 E. coli. The suppressor tRNAs are aminoacylated
 in vivo only in the presence of the heterologous aaRSs,
 and the aminoacylated tRNAs function efficiently in suppression of
 amber codons. Plasmids carrying the E. coli GlnRS gene
 can be stably maintained in yeast. However, plasmids carrying the yeast
 TyrRS gene could not be stably maintained in E. coli.
 This lack of stability is most likely due to the fact that the
 wild-type yeast TyrRS misaminoacylates the E. coli
 proline tRNA. By using error-prone PCR, we have isolated and
 characterized three mutants of yeast TyrRS, which can be stably
 expressed in E. coli. These mutants still aminoacylate
 the suppressor tRNA essentially quantitatively in vivo
 but show increased discrimination in vitro for the
 suppressor tRNA over the E. coli proline tRNA by factors
 of 2.2- to 6.8-fold.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mass spectrometry and fluorescent probes have provided direct
 evidence that alkylating agents permeate the protein capsid of naked
 viruses and chemically inactivate the nucleic acid.
 N-acetyl-aziridine and a fluorescent alkylating agent,
 dansyl sulfonate aziridine, inactivated three different viruses, flock
 house virus, human rhinovirus-14, and foot and mouth disease virus.
 Mass spectral studies as well as fluorescent probes showed that
 alkylation of the genome was the mechanism of inactivation. Because
 particle integrity was not affected by selective alkylation (as shown
 by electron microscopy and sucrose gradient experiments), it was
 reasoned that the dynamic nature of the viral capsid acts as a conduit
 to the interior of the particle. Potential applications include
 fluorescent labeling for imaging viral genomes in living cells, the
 sterilization of blood products, vaccine development, and viral
 inactivation in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To determine the importance of mitochondrial reactive oxygen
 species toxicity in aging and senescence, we analyzed changes in
 mitochondrial function with age in mice with partial or complete
 deficiencies in the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme manganese
 superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). Liver mitochondria from homozygous mutant
 mice, with a complete deficiency in MnSOD, exhibited substantial
 respiration inhibition and marked sensitization of the mitochondrial
 permeability transition pore. Mitochondria from heterozygous mice, with
 a partial deficiency in MnSOD, showed evidence of increased proton
 leak, inhibition of respiration, and early and rapid accumulation of
 mitochondrial oxidative damage. Furthermore, chronic oxidative stress
 in the heterozygous mice resulted in an increased sensitization of the
 mitochondrial permeability transition pore and the premature induction
 of apoptosis, which presumably eliminates the cells with
 damaged mitochondria. Mice with normal MnSOD levels show the same
 age-related mitochondrial decline as the heterozygotes but occurring
 later in life. The premature decline in mitochondrial function in the
 heterozygote was associated with the compensatory up-regulation of
 oxidative phosphorylation enzyme activity. Thus mitochondrial reactive
 oxygen species production, oxidative stress, functional decline, and
 the initiation of apoptosis appear to be central components of
 the aging process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The synthesis of DNA in mitochondria requires the uptake of
 deoxynucleotides into the matrix of the organelle. We have
 characterized a human cDNA encoding a member of the family of
 mitochondrial carriers. The protein has been overexpressed in bacteria
 and reconstituted into phospholipid vesicles where it catalyzed the
 transport of all four deoxy (d) NDPs, and, less efficiently, the
 corresponding dNTPs, in exchange for dNDPs, ADP, or ATP. It did not
 transport dNMPs, NMPs, deoxynucleosides, nucleosides, purines, or
 pyrimidines. The physiological role of this deoxynucleotide carrier is
 probably to supply deoxynucleotides to the mitochondrial matrix for
 conversion to triphosphates and incorporation into mitochondrial DNA.
 The protein is expressed in all human tissues that were examined except
 for placenta, in accord with such a central role. The deoxynucleotide
 carrier also transports dideoxynucleotides efficiently. It is likely to
 be medically important by providing the means of uptake into
 mitochondria of nucleoside analogs, leading to the mitochondrial
 impairment that underlies the toxic side effects of such drugs in the
 treatment of viral illnesses, including AIDS, and in cancer therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The chloroplast gene rbcL encodes the large
 subunit of the CO2-fixing enzyme ribulose-bisphosphate
 carboxylase. In previous work a target for photo-accelerated
 degradation of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii rbcL
 transcripts in vivo was found to lie within the first 63
 nucleotides, and a sequence element required for increasing the
 longevity of transcripts of rbcL-reporter genes was
 found to occur between nucleotides 170 and 350. Photo-accelerated
 degradation of rbcL transcripts has been found to
 require nucleotides 21 to 41. Transcript nucleotides lying between 329
 and 334 and between 14 and 27 are essential for stabilizing transcripts
 in vivo; mutations in either region reduce the longevity
 of transcripts. It is postulated that the effectiveness of
 photo-accelerated endonuclease attacks on the nucleotide 21 to 41
 region is reduced by physical blockage or distortion of the target
 sequence by interacting proteins that associate with nucleotides in the
 14 to 27 and 329 to 334 regions of the transcripts. Both the nucleotide
 +329 to +334 stabilizing sequence of rbcL and a
 transcription enhancing sequence that lies between +126 and +170 encode
 well conserved (cyanobacteria through angiosperms) amino acid
 sequences; the evolution of expression control elements within the
 protein coding sequence of rbcL is considered.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genes rbcS and rbcL encode,
 respectively, the small and large subunits of the photosynthetic carbon
 dioxide fixation enzyme ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase.
 There is a single rbcL gene in each chloroplast
 chromosome; a family of rbcS genes is located in the
 nuclear genome. These two genes are not expressed in mesophyll cells
 but are in adjacent bundle-sheath cells of leaves of the C4 plant
 Zea mays. Two regions of the maize gene
 rbcS-m3 are required for suppressing expression in
 mesophyll cells. One region is just beyond the translation termination
 site in the 3′ region, and the other is several hundred base pairs
 upstream of the transcription start site. A binding site for a protein
 with limited homology to the viral, yeast, and mammalian transcription
 repressor-activator YY1 (Yin-Yang I), has now been identified in the 3′
 region. A maize gene for a protein with zinc fingers homologous to
 those of YY1 has been isolated, characterized, and expressed in
 Escherichia coli. The gene is designated
 trm1 (transcription repressor-maize 1). The protein TRM1
 binds to the YY1-like site and, in addition, TRM1 binds to two sequence
 regions in the 5′ region of the gene that have no homology to the YY1
 site. Mutagenesis or deletion of any of these three sequences
 eliminates repression of rbcS-m3 reporter genes in
 mesophyll cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mnt, a tetrameric repressor encoded by bacteriophage P22, uses
 N-domain dimers to contact each half of its operator site. Experiments
 with a double mutant and structural homology with the P22 Arc repressor
 suggest that contacts made by Arg-28 and stabilized by Glu-33 are
 largely responsible for dimer–dimer cooperativity in Mnt. These
 dimer–dimer contacts are energetically more important for operator
 binding than solution tetramerization, which is mediated by an
 independent C-terminal coiled-coil domain. Indeed, once one dimer of
 the Mnt tetramer contacts an operator half site, binding of the second
 dimer occurs with an effective concentration much lower than that
 expected if both dimers were flexibly tethered. These results suggest
 that binding of the second dimer introduces some strain into the
 protein–DNA complex, a mechanism that could serve to limit the
 affinity of operator binding and to prevent strong binding of the Mnt
 tetramer to nonoperator sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using a consensus sequence in inositol phosphate kinase, we have
 identified and cloned a 44-kDa mammalian inositol phosphate kinase with
 broader catalytic capacities than any other member of the family and
 which we designate mammalian inositol phosphate multikinase (mIPMK). By
 phosphorylating inositol 4,5-bisphosphate, mIPMK provides an
 alternative biosynthesis for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate
 [Ins(1,4,5)P3]. mIPMK also can form the
 pyrophosphate disphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate
 (PP-InsP4) from
 InsP5. Additionally, mIPMK forms
 InsP4 from
 Ins(1,4,5)P3 and
 InsP5 from
 Ins(1,3,4,5)P4.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A method for determining the kinetic fate of structured disulfide
 species (i.e., whether they are preferentially oxidized or reshuffle
 back to an unstructured disulfide species) is introduced. The method
 relies on the sensitivity of unstructured disulfide species to low
 concentrations of reducing agents. Because a structured des species
 that preferentially reshuffles generally first rearranges to an
 unstructured species, a small concentration of reduced DTT (e.g., 260
 μM) suffices to distinguish on-pathway intermediates from dead-end
 species. We apply this method to the oxidative folding of bovine
 pancreatic ribonuclease A (RNase A) and show that des[40–95] and
 des[65–72] are productive intermediates, whereas des[26–84]
 and des[58–110] are metastable dead-end species that preferentially
 reshuffle. The key factor in determining the kinetic fate of these des
 species is the relative accessibility of both their thiol groups and
 disulfide bonds. Productive intermediates tend to be
 disulfide-secure, meaning that their structural
 fluctuations preferentially expose their thiol groups, while keeping
 their disulfide bonds buried. By contrast, dead-end species tend to be
 disulfide-insecure, in that their structural
 fluctuations expose their disulfide bonds in concert with their thiol
 groups. This distinction leads to four generic types of oxidative
 folding pathways. We combine these results with those of earlier
 studies to suggest a general three-stage model of oxidative folding of
 RNase A and other single-domain proteins with multiple disulfide bonds.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Metallothionein (MT) localizes in the intermembrane space
 of liver mitochondria as well as in the cytosol and nucleus. Incubation
 of intact liver mitochondria with physiological, micromolar
 concentrations of MT leads to the import of MT into the mitochondria
 where it inhibits respiration. This activity is caused by the
 N-terminal β-domain of MT; in this system, the
 isolated C-terminal α-domain is inactive. Free zinc inhibits
 respiration at concentrations commensurate with the zinc content of
 either MT or the isolated β-domain, indicating that MT inhibition
 involves zinc delivery to mitochondria. Respiratory inhibition of
 uncoupled mitochondria identifies the electron transfer chain as the
 primary site of inhibition. The apoform of MT, thionein, is an
 endogenous chelating agent and activates zinc-inhibited
 respiration with a 1:1 stoichiometry ([zinc binding
 sites]/[zinc]). Carbamoylation of the lysines of MT significantly
 attenuates the inhibitory effect, suggesting that these residues are
 critical for the passage of MT through the outer mitochondrial
 membrane. Such an import pathway has been proposed for other proteins
 that also lack a mitochondrial targeting sequence, e.g., apocytochrome
 c, and possibly Cox17, a mitochondrial copper chaperone
 that is the only protein known so far to exhibit significant primary
 sequence homology to MT. The presence and respiratory inhibition of MT
 in liver, but not heart, mitochondria suggest a hitherto unknown
 biological modulating activity of MT in cellular respiration and energy
 metabolism in a tissue-specific manner.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) is a key
 regulator of lipid homeostasis in hepatocytes and target for fatty
 acids and hypolipidemic drugs. How these signaling molecules reach the
 nuclear receptor is not known; however, similarities in ligand
 specificity suggest the liver fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP) as a
 possible candidate. In localization studies using laser-scanning
 microscopy, we show that L-FABP and PPARα colocalize in the nucleus
 of mouse primary hepatocytes. Furthermore, we demonstrate by pull-down
 assay and immunocoprecipitation that L-FABP interacts directly with
 PPARα. In a cell biological approach with the aid of a mammalian
 two-hybrid system, we provide evidence that L-FABP interacts with
 PPARα and PPARγ but not with PPARβ and retinoid X receptor-α by
 protein–protein contacts. In addition, we demonstrate that the
 observed interaction of both proteins is independent of ligand binding.
 Final and quantitative proof for L-FABP mediation was obtained in
 transactivation assays upon incubation of transiently and stably
 transfected HepG2 cells with saturated, monounsaturated, and
 polyunsaturated fatty acids as well as with hypolipidemic drugs. With
 all ligands applied, we observed strict correlation of PPARα and
 PPARγ transactivation with intracellular concentrations of L-FABP.
 This correlation constitutes a nucleus-directed signaling by fatty
 acids and hypolipidemic drugs where L-FABP acts as a cytosolic gateway
 for these PPARα and PPARγ agonists. Thus, L-FABP and the respective
 PPARs could serve as targets for nutrients and drugs to affect
 expression of PPAR-sensitive genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent improvements of a hierarchical ab initio or
 de novo approach for predicting both α and β
 structures of proteins are described. The united-residue energy
 function used in this procedure includes multibody interactions from a
 cumulant expansion of the free energy of polypeptide chains, with their
 relative weights determined by Z-score optimization. The critical
 initial stage of the hierarchical procedure involves a search of
 conformational space by the conformational space annealing (CSA)
 method, followed by optimization of an all-atom model. The procedure
 was assessed in a recent blind test of protein structure prediction
 (CASP4). The resulting lowest-energy structures of the target proteins
 (ranging in size from 70 to 244 residues) agreed with the experimental
 structures in many respects. The entire experimental structure of a
 cyclic α-helical protein of 70 residues was predicted to within 4.3
 Å α-carbon (Cα) rms deviation (rmsd) whereas, for
 other α-helical proteins, fragments of roughly 60 residues were
 predicted to within 6.0 Å Cα rmsd. Whereas β
 structures can now be predicted with the new procedure, the success
 rate for α/β- and β-proteins is lower than that for
 α-proteins at present. For the β portions of α/β
 structures, the Cα rmsd's are less than 6.0 Å for
 contiguous fragments of 30–40 residues; for one target, three
 fragments (of length 10, 23, and 28 residues, respectively) formed a
 compact part of the tertiary structure with a Cα rmsd
 less than 6.0 Å. Overall, these results constitute an important step
 toward the ab initio prediction of protein structure
 solely from the amino acid sequence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations at position 187 in secreted gelsolin enable aberrant
 proteolysis at the 172–173 and 243–244 amide bonds, affording the
 71-residue amyloidogenic peptide deposited in Familial Amyloidosis of
 Finnish Type (FAF). Thermodynamic comparisons of two different domain 2
 constructs were carried out to study possible effects of the mutations
 on proteolytic susceptibility. In the construct we consider to be most
 representative of domain 2 in the context of the full-length protein
 (134–266), the D187N FAF variant is slightly destabilized relative to
 wild type (WT) under the conditions of urea denaturation, but exhibits
 a Tm identical to WT. The D187Y variant is
 less stable to intermediate urea concentrations and exhibits a
 Tm that is estimated to be ≈5°C lower
 than WT (pH 7.4, Ca2+-free). Although the thermodynamic
 data indicate that the FAF mutations may slightly destabilize domain 2,
 these changes are probably not sufficient to shift the native to
 denatured state equilibrium enough to enable the proteolysis leading to
 FAF. Biophysical data indicate that these two FAF variants may have
 different native state structures and possibly different pathways of
 amyloidosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dynamic behaviors of liposomes caused by interactions between
 liposomal membranes and surfactant were studied by direct real-time
 observation by using high-intensity dark-field microscopy.
 Solubilization of liposomes by surfactants is thought to be a
 catastrophic event akin to the explosion of soap bubbles in the air;
 however, the actual process has not been clarified. We studied this
 process experimentally and found that liposomes exposed to various
 surfactants exhibited unusual behavior, namely continuous shrinkage
 accompanied by intermittent quakes, release of encapsulated
 liposomes, opening up, and inside–out topological inversion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dynamic and structural information has been obtained for an
 analogue of acetylcholine while bound to the agonist binding site on
 the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAcChoR), using wide-line
 deuterium solid-state NMR. Analysis of the deuterium lineshape obtained
 at various temperatures from unoriented nAcChoR membranes labeled with
 deuterated bromoacetylcholine (BAC) showed that the quaternary ammonium
 group of the ligand is well constrained within the agonist binding site
 when compared with the dynamics observed in the crystalline solids.
 This motional restriction would suggest that a high degree of
 complementarity exists between the quaternary ammonium group of the
 ligand and the protein within the agonist binding site. nAcChoR
 membranes were uniaxially oriented by isopotential centrifugation as
 determined by phosphorous NMR of the membrane phospholipids. Analysis
 of the deuterium NMR lineshape of these oriented membranes enriched
 with the nAcChoR labeled with
 N+(CD3)3-BAC has enabled us to
 determine that the angle formed between the quaternary ammonium group
 of the BAC and the membrane normal is 42° in the desensitized form of
 the receptor. This measurement allows us to orient in part the bound
 ligand within the proposed receptor binding site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The downstream prion-like protein (doppel, or Dpl) is a paralog of
 the cellular prion protein, PrPC. The two proteins have
 ≈25% sequence identity, but seem to have distinct physiologic roles.
 Unlike PrPC, Dpl does not support prion replication;
 instead, overexpression of Dpl in the brain seems to cause a completely
 different neurodegenerative disease. We report the solution structure
 of a fragment of recombinant mouse Dpl (residues 26–157) containing a
 globular domain with three helices and a small amount of β-structure.
 Overall, the topology of Dpl is very similar to that of
 PrPC. Significant differences include a marked kink in one
 of the helices in Dpl, and a different orientation of the two short
 β-strands. Although the two proteins most likely arose through
 duplication of a single ancestral gene, the relationship is now so
 distant that only the structures retain similarity; the functions have
 diversified along with the sequence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The 2H,13C,15N-labeled,
 148-residue integral membrane protein OmpX from Escherichia
 coli was reconstituted with dihexanoyl phosphatidylcholine
 (DHPC) in mixed micelles of molecular mass of about 60 kDa. Transverse
 relaxation-optimized spectroscopy (TROSY)-type triple resonance NMR
 experiments and TROSY-type nuclear Overhauser enhancement spectra were
 recorded in 2 mM aqueous solutions of these mixed micelles at pH 6.8
 and 30°C. Complete sequence-specific NMR assignments for the
 polypeptide backbone thus have been obtained. The 13C
 chemical shifts and the nuclear Overhauser effect data then resulted in
 the identification of the regular secondary structure elements of
 OmpX/DHPC in solution and in the collection of an input of
 conformational constraints for the computation of the global fold of
 the protein. The same type of polypeptide backbone fold is observed in
 the presently determined solution structure and the previously reported
 crystal structure of OmpX determined in the presence of the detergent
 n-octyltetraoxyethylene. Further structure refinement
 will have to rely on the additional resonance assignment of partially
 or fully protonated amino acid side chains, but the present data
 already demonstrate that relaxation-optimized NMR techniques open novel
 avenues for studies of structure and function of integral membrane
 proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Carotenoids are important biomolecules that are ubiquitous in
 nature and find widespread application in medicine. In photosynthesis,
 they have a large role in light harvesting (LH) and photoprotection.
 They exert their LH function by donating their excited singlet state to
 nearby (bacterio)chlorophyll molecules. In photosynthetic bacteria, the
 efficiency of this energy transfer process can be as low as 30%. Here,
 we present evidence that an unusual pathway of excited state relaxation
 in carotenoids underlies this poor LH function, by which carotenoid
 triplet states are generated directly from carotenoid singlet states.
 This pathway, operative on a femtosecond and picosecond timescale,
 involves an intermediate state, which we identify as a new, hitherto
 uncharacterized carotenoid singlet excited state. In LH complex-bound
 carotenoids, this state is the precursor on the reaction pathway to the
 triplet state, whereas in extracted carotenoids in solution, this state
 returns to the singlet ground state without forming any triplets. We
 discuss the possible identity of this excited state and argue that
 fission of the singlet state into a pair of triplet states on
 individual carotenoid molecules constitutes the mechanism by which the
 triplets are generated. This is, to our knowledge, the first ever
 direct observation of a singlet-to-triplet conversion process on an
 ultrafast timescale in a photosynthetic antenna.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The grail of protein science is the connection between structure
 and function. For myoglobin (Mb) this goal is close. Described as only
 a passive dioxygen storage protein in texts, we argue here that Mb is
 actually an allosteric enzyme that can catalyze reactions among small
 molecules. Studies of the structural, spectroscopic, and kinetic
 properties of Mb lead to a model that relates structure, energy
 landscape, dynamics, and function. Mb functions as a miniature chemical
 reactor, concentrating and orienting diatomic molecules such as NO, CO,
 O2, and H2O2 in highly conserved
 internal cavities. Reactions can be controlled because Mb exists in
 distinct taxonomic substates with different catalytic properties and
 connectivities of internal cavities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
X-ray diffraction and other biophysical tools reveal features of
 the atomic structure of an amyloid-like crystal. Sup35, a prion-like
 protein in yeast, forms fibrillar amyloid assemblies intrinsic to its
 prion function. We have identified a polar peptide from the N-terminal
 prion-determining domain of Sup35 that exhibits the amyloid properties
 of full-length Sup35, including cooperative kinetics of aggregation,
 fibril formation, binding of the dye Congo red, and the characteristic
 cross-β x-ray diffraction pattern. Microcrystals of this peptide also
 share the principal properties of the fibrillar amyloid, including a
 highly stable, β-sheet-rich structure and the binding of Congo red.
 The x-ray powder pattern of the microcrystals, extending to 0.9-Å
 resolution, yields the unit cell dimensions of the well-ordered
 structure. These dimensions restrict possible atomic models of this
 amyloid-like structure and demonstrate that it forms packed,
 parallel-stranded β-sheets. The unusually high density of the
 crystals shows that the packed β-sheets are dehydrated, despite the
 polar character of the side chains. These results suggest that amyloid
 is a highly intermolecularly bonded, dehydrated array of densely packed
 β-sheets. This dry β-sheet could form as Sup35 partially unfolds to
 expose the peptide, permitting it to hydrogen-bond to the same peptide
 of other Sup35 molecules. The implication is that amyloid-forming units
 may be short segments of proteins, exposed for interactions by partial
 unfolding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Here we show that presenilin-1 (PS1), a protein involved in
 Alzheimer's disease, binds directly to epithelial cadherin
 (E-cadherin). This binding is mediated by the large cytoplasmic loop of
 PS1 and requires the membrane-proximal cytoplasmic sequence 604–615 of
 mature E-cadherin. This sequence is also required for E-cadherin
 binding of protein p120, a known regulator of cadherin-mediated cell
 adhesion. Using wild-type and PS1 knockout cells, we found that
 increasing PS1 levels suppresses p120/E-cadherin binding, and
 increasing p120 levels suppresses PS1/E-cadherin binding. Thus
 PS1 and p120 bind to and mutually compete for cellular E-cadherin.
 Furthermore, PS1 stimulates E-cadherin binding to β- and γ-catenin,
 promotes cytoskeletal association of the cadherin/catenin
 complexes, and increases Ca2+-dependent cell–cell
 aggregation. Remarkably, PS1 familial Alzheimer disease mutant ΔE9
 increased neither the levels of cadherin/catenin complexes nor
 cell aggregation, suggesting that this familial Alzheimer disease
 mutation interferes with cadherin-based cell–cell adhesion. These data
 identify PS1 as an E-cadherin-binding protein and a regulator of
 E-cadherin function in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We introduced disulfide bonds to lock the integrin αLβ2 I
 domain in predicted open, ligand binding or closed, nonbinding
 conformations. Transfectants expressing αLβ2 heterodimers
 containing locked-open but not locked-closed or wild-type I domains
 constitutively adhered to intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1)
 substrates. Locking the I domain closed abolished constitutive and
 activatable adhesion. The isolated locked-open I domain bound as well
 as the activated αLβ2 heterodimer, and binding was abolished by
 reduction of the disulfide. Lovastatin, which binds under the
 conformationally mobile C-terminal α-helix of the I domain, inhibited
 binding to ICAM-1 by αLβ2 with wild-type, but not locked-open I
 domains. These data establish the importance of conformational change
 in the αL I domain for adhesive function and show that this domain is
 sufficient for full adhesive activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We used integrin αLβ2 heterodimers containing I domains
 locked open (active) or closed (inactive) with disulfide bonds to
 investigate regulatory interactions among domains in integrins. mAbs to
 the αL I domain and β2 I-like domain inhibit adhesion of wild-type
 αLβ2 to intercellular adhesion molecule-1. However, with αLβ2
 containing a locked open I domain, mAbs to the I domain were subdivided
 into subsets (i) that did not inhibit, and thus appear
 to inhibit by favoring the closed conformation, and (ii)
 that did inhibit, and thus appear to bind to the ligand binding site.
 Furthermore, αLβ2 containing a locked open I domain was completely
 resistant to inhibition by mAbs to the β2 I-like domain, but became
 fully susceptible to inhibition after disulfide reduction with DTT.
 This finding suggests that the I-like domain indirectly contributes to
 ligand binding by regulating opening of the I domain in wild-type
 αLβ2. Conversely, locking the I domain closed partially restrained
 conformational change of the I-like domain by Mn2+, as
 measured with mAb m24, which we map here to the β2 I-like domain. By
 contrast, locking the I domain closed or open did not affect
 constitutive or Mn2+-induced exposure of the KIM127 epitope
 in the β2 stalk region. Furthermore, locked open I domains, in
 αLβ2 complexes or expressed in isolation on the cell surface, bound
 to intercellular adhesion molecule-1 equivalently in Mg2+
 and Mn2+. These results suggest that Mn2+
 activates αLβ2 by binding to a site other than the I domain, most
 likely the I-like domain of β2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The positional relationships among all of the visible organelles in
 a densely packed region of cytoplasm from an insulin secreting,
 cultured mammalian cell have been analyzed in three dimensions (3-D) at
 ≈6 nm resolution. Part of a fast frozen/freeze-substituted HIT-T15
 cell that included a large portion of the Golgi ribbon was
 reconstructed in 3-D by electron tomography. The reconstructed volume
 (3.1 × 3.2 × 1.2 μm3) allowed sites of
 interaction between organelles, and between microtubules and organellar
 membranes, to be accurately defined in 3-D and quantitatively analyzed
 by spatial density analyses. Our data confirm that the Golgi in an
 interphase mammalian cell is a single, ribbon-like organelle composed
 of stacks of flattened cisternae punctuated by openings of various
 sizes [Rambourg, A., Clermont, Y., & Hermo, L. (1979) Am.
 J. Anat. 154, 455–476]. The data also show that the
 endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a single continuous compartment that
 forms close contacts with mitochondria, multiple trans Golgi cisternae,
 and compartments of the endo-lysosomal system. This ER traverses the
 Golgi ribbon from one side to the other via cisternal openings.
 Microtubules form close, non-random associations with the cis Golgi,
 the ER, and endo-lysosomal compartments. Despite the dense packing of
 organelles in this Golgi region, ≈66% of the reconstructed volume is
 calculated to represent cytoplasmic matrix. We relate the intimacy of
 structural associations between organelles in the Golgi region, as
 quantified by spatial density analyses, to biochemical mechanisms for
 membrane trafficking and organellar communication in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An in vitro assay for nucleocytoplasmic transport
 was established in which signal-dependent protein import is reproduced
 faithfully by isolated purified nuclei. The assay permits the precise
 quantification of import kinetics and the discrimination between
 translocation through the nuclear envelope and intranuclear transport.
 Nuclei were manually isolated from Xenopus oocytes and
 after manual purification incubated with a medium containing a green
 fluorescent transport substrate, karyopherins α2 and β1, a red
 fluorescent control substrate, an energy mix and, for keeping an
 osmotic balance, 20% (wt/vol) BSA. Import of transport substrates
 into the nucleus and exclusion of the control substrate were monitored
 simultaneously by two-color confocal microscopy. Two widely differing
 import substrates were used: the recombinant protein P4K [480 kDa,
 four nuclear localization sequences (NLSs) per P4K tetramer], and
 NLS-BSA (90 kDa, 15 NLSs). The measurements suggested that import, at
 the specific conditions used in this study, consisted of two
 consecutive processes: (i) the rapid equilibration of
 the concentration difference across the nuclear envelope, a process
 involving binding and translocation of substrate by the nuclear pore
 complex , and (ii) the dissipation of the intranuclear
 concentration difference by diffusion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A human cDNA encoding an 841-aa guanine nucleotide-exchange
 protein (GEP) for ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs), named
 ARF-GEP100, which contains a Sec7 domain, a pleckstrin
 homology (PH)-like domain, and an incomplete IQ-motif, was identified.
 On Northern blot analysis of human tissues, a ≈8-kb mRNA that
 hybridized with an ARF-GEP100 cDNA was abundant in
 peripheral blood leukocytes, brain, and spleen. ARF-GEP100
 accelerated [35S]GTPγS binding to ARF1 (class I) and
 ARF5 (class II) 2- to 3-fold, and to ARF6 (class III)
 ca. 12-fold. The ARF-GEP100 Sec7 domain
 contains Asp543 and Met555, corresponding to
 residues associated with sensitivity to the inhibitory effect of the
 fungal metabolite brefeldin A (BFA) in yeast Sec7, but also
 Phe535 and Ala536, associated with
 BFA-insensitivity. The PH-like domain differs greatly from those of
 other ARF GEPs in regions involved in phospholipid binding. Consistent
 with its structure, ARF-GEP100 activity was not affected by
 BFA or phospholipids. After subcellular fractionation of cultured T98G
 human glioblastoma cells, ARF6 was almost entirely in the crude
 membrane fraction, whereas ARF-GEP100, a 100-kDa protein
 detected with antipeptide antibodies, was cytosolic. On
 immunofluorescence microscopy, both proteins had a punctate pattern of
 distribution throughout the cells, with apparent colocalization only in
 peripheral areas. The coarse punctate distribution of EEA-1 in regions
 nearer the nucleus appeared to coincide with that of
 ARF-GEP100 in those areas. No similar coincidence of
 ARF-GEP100 with AP-1, AP-2, catenin, LAMP-1, or 58K was
 observed. The new human BFA-insensitive GEP may function with ARF6 in
 specific endocytic processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ca2+ sensitization of smooth muscle contraction
 involves inhibition of myosin light chain phosphatase (SMPP-1M) and
 enhanced myosin light chain phosphorylation. Inhibition of SMPP-1M is
 modulated through phosphorylation of the myosin targeting subunit
 (MYPT1) by either Rho-associated kinase (ROK) or an unknown
 SMPP-1M-associated kinase. Activated ROK is predominantly
 membrane-associated and its putative substrate, SMPP-1M, is mainly
 myofibrillar-associated. This raises a conundrum about the mechanism of
 interaction between these enzymes. We present ZIP-like kinase,
 identified by “mixed-peptide” Edman sequencing after affinity
 purification, as the previously unidentified SMPP-1M-associated kinase.
 ZIP-like kinase was shown to associate with MYPT1 and phosphorylate the
 inhibitory site in intact smooth muscle. Phosphorylation of ZIP-like
 kinase was associated with an increase in kinase activity during
 carbachol stimulation, suggesting that the enzyme may be a terminal
 member of a Ca2+ sensitizing kinase cascade.
DOC DONE!Abstract
FKBP12, the 12-kDa FK506-binding protein, is a ubiquitous abundant
 protein that acts as a receptor for the immunosuppressant drug FK506,
 binds tightly to intracellular calcium release channels and to the
 transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) type I receptor. We now
 demonstrate that cells from FKBP12-deficient (FKBP12−/−)
 mice manifest cell cycle arrest in G1 phase and that these
 cells can be rescued by FKBP12 transfection. This arrest is mediated by
 marked augmentation of p21(WAF1/CIP1) levels, which cannot be
 further augmented by TGF-β1. The p21 up-regulation and cell cycle
 arrest derive from the overactivity of TGF-β receptor signaling,
 which is normally inhibited by FKBP12. Cell cycle arrest is prevented
 by transfection with a dominant-negative TGF-β receptor construct.
 TGF-β receptor signaling to gene expression can be mediated by SMAD,
 p38, and ERK/MAP kinase (extracellular signal-regulated
 kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathways. SMAD
 signaling is down-regulated in FKBP12−/− cells.
 Inhibition of ERK/MAP kinase fails to affect p21 up-regulation.
 By contrast, activated phosphorylated p38 is markedly augmented in
 FKBP12−/− cells and the p21 up-regulation is prevented by
 an inhibitor of p38. Thus, FKBP12 is a physiologic regulator of cell
 cycle acting by normally down-regulating TGF-β receptor signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To improve the accuracy of predicting membrane protein sorting
 signals, we developed a general methodology for defining trafficking
 signal consensus sequences in the environment of the living cell. Our
 approach uses retroviral gene transfer to create combinatorial
 expression libraries of trafficking signal variants in mammalian cells,
 flow cytometry to sort cells based on trafficking phenotype, and
 quantitative trafficking assays to measure the efficacy of individual
 signals. Using this strategy to analyze arginine- and lysine-based
 endoplasmic reticulum localization signals, we demonstrate that small
 changes in the local sequence context dramatically alter signal
 strength, generating a broad spectrum of trafficking phenotypes.
 Finally, using sequences from our screen, we found that the potency of
 di-lysine, but not di-arginine, mediated endoplasmic reticulum
 localization was correlated with the strength of interaction with
 α-COP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To investigate the dynamics of guanosine 3′,5′-cyclic monophosphate
 (cGMP) in single living cells, we constructed genetically encoded,
 fluorescent cGMP indicators by bracketing cGMP-dependent protein kinase
 (cGPK), minus residues 1–77, between cyan and yellow mutants of green
 fluorescent protein. cGMP decreased fluorescence resonance energy
 transfer (FRET) and increased the ratio of cyan to yellow emissions by
 up to 1.5-fold with apparent dissociation constants of ≈2 μM and
 >100:1 selectivity for cGMP over cAMP. To eliminate constitutive
 kinase activity, Thr516 of cGPK was mutated to Ala.
 Emission ratio imaging of the indicators transfected into rat fetal
 lung fibroblast (RFL)-6 showed cGMP transients resulting from
 activation of soluble and particulate guanylyl cyclase, respectively,
 by nitric oxide (NO) and C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP). Whereas all
 naive cells tested responded to CNP, only 68% responded to NO. Both
 sets of signals showed large and variable (0.5–4 min) latencies. The
 phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX)
 did not elevate cGMP on its own but consistently amplified responses to
 NO or CNP, suggesting that basal activity of guanylate cyclase is very
 low and emphasizing the importance of PDEs in cGMP recycling. A
 fraction of RFL cells showed slowly propagating tides of cGMP spreading
 across the cell in response to delocalized application of NO.
 Biolistically transfected Purkinje neurons showed cGMP responses to
 parallel fiber activity and NO donors, confirming that single-cell
 increases in cGMP occur under conditions appropriate to cause synaptic
 plasticity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-4 is a pleiotropic immune cytokine secreted by activated
 TH2 cells that inhibits bone resorption both in
 vitro and in vivo. The cellular targets of IL-4
 action as well as its intracellular mechanism of action remain to be
 determined. We show here that IL-4 inhibits receptor activator of
 NF-κB ligand-induced osteoclast differentiation through an action on
 osteoclast precursors that is independent of stromal cells.
 Interestingly, this inhibitory effect can be mimicked by both natural
 as well as synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ1
 (PPARγ1) ligands and can be blocked by the irreversible PPARγ
 antagonist GW 9662. These findings suggest that the actions of IL-4 on
 osteoclast differentiation are mediated by PPARγ1, an interpretation
 strengthened by the observation that IL-4 can activate a
 PPARγ1-sensitive luciferase reporter gene in RAW264.7 cells. We also
 show that inhibitors of enzymes such as 12/15-lipoxygenase and the
 cyclooxygenases that produce known PPARγ1 ligands do not abrogate the
 IL-4 effect. These findings, together with the observation that bone
 marrow cells from 12/15-lipoxygenase-deficient mice retain
 sensitivity to IL-4, suggest that the cytokine may induce novel
 PPARγ1 ligands. Our results reveal that PPARγ1 plays an important
 role in the suppression of osteoclast formation by IL-4 and may explain
 the beneficial effects of the thiazolidinedione class of PPARγ1
 ligands on bone loss in diabetic patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using both confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and
 biochemical approaches, we have examined the role of β-arrestins
 in the activation and targeting of extracellular signal-regulated
 kinase 2 (ERK2) following stimulation of angiotensin II type 1a
 receptors (AT1aR). In HEK-293 cells expressing hemagglutinin-tagged
 AT1aR, angiotensin stimulation triggered β-arrestin-2 binding to the
 receptor and internalization of AT1aR-β-arrestin complexes. Using red
 fluorescent protein-tagged ERK2 to track the subcellular distribution
 of ERK2, we found that angiotensin treatment caused the redistribution
 of activated ERK2 into endosomal vesicles that also contained
 AT1aR-β-arrestin complexes. This targeting of ERK2 reflects the
 formation of multiprotein complexes containing AT1aR, β-arrestin-2,
 and the component kinases of the ERK cascade, cRaf-1, MEK1, and ERK2.
 Myc-tagged cRaf-1, MEK1, and green fluorescent protein-tagged ERK2
 coprecipitated with Flag-tagged β-arrestin-2 from transfected COS-7
 cells. Coprecipitation of cRaf-1 with β-arrestin-2 was independent of
 MEK1 and ERK2, whereas the coprecipitation of MEK1 and ERK2 with
 β-arrestin-2 was significantly enhanced in the presence of
 overexpressed cRaf-1, suggesting that binding of cRaf-1 to β-arrestin
 facilitates the assembly of a cRaf-1, MEK1, ERK2 complex. The
 phosphorylation of ERK2 in β-arrestin complexes was markedly enhanced
 by coexpression of cRaf-1, and this effect is blocked by expression of
 a catalytically inactive dominant inhibitory mutant of MEK1.
 Stimulation with angiotensin increased the binding of both cRaf-1 and
 ERK2 to β-arrestin-2, and the association of β-arrestin-2, cRaf-1,
 and ERK2 with AT1aR. These data suggest that β-arrestins function
 both as scaffolds to enhance cRaf-1 and MEK-dependent activation of
 ERK2, and as targeting proteins that direct activated ERK to specific
 subcellular locations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Keratins 14 and 5 are the structural hallmarks of the basal
 keratinocytes of the epidermis and outer root sheath (ORS) of the hair
 follicle. Their genes are controlled in a tissue-specific manner and
 thus serve as useful tools to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms
 involved in keratinocyte-specific transcription. Previously we
 identified several keratinocyte-specific DNase I hypersensitive sites
 (HSs) in the 5′ regulatory sequences of the K14 gene and showed that a
 700-bp regulatory domain encompassing HSs II and III can confer
 epidermal and ORS-specific gene expression in transgenic mice in
 vivo. Although HS II harbored much of the transactivation
 activity in vitro, it was not sufficient to restrict
 expression to keratinocytes in vivo. We now explore the
 HS III regulatory element. Surprisingly, this element on its own
 confers gene expression to the keratinocytes of the inner root sheath
 (IRS) of the hair follicle, whereas a 275-bp DNA fragment containing
 both HSs II and III shifts the expression from the IRS to the basal
 keratinocytes and ORS in vivo. Electrophoretic
 mobility-shift assays and mutational studies of HSs III reveal a role
 for CACCC-box binding proteins, Sp1 family members, and other factors
 adding to the list of previously described factors that are involved in
 keratinocyte-specific gene expression. These studies highlight a
 cooperative interaction of the two HSs domains and strengthen the
 importance of combinatorial play of transcription factors that govern
 keratinocyte-specific gene regulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although the zebrafish possesses many characteristics that make it
 a valuable model for genetic studies of vertebrate development, one
 deficiency of this model system is the absence of methods for
 cell-mediated gene transfer and targeted gene inactivation. In mice,
 embryonic stem cell cultures are routinely used for gene transfer and
 provide the advantage of in vitro selection for rare
 events such as homologous recombination and targeted mutation.
 Transgenic animals possessing a mutated copy of the targeted gene are
 generated when the selected cells contribute to the germ line of a
 chimeric embryo. Although zebrafish embryo cell cultures that exhibit
 characteristics of embryonic stem cells have been described, successful
 contribution of the cells to the germ-cell lineage of a host embryo has
 not been reported. In this study, we demonstrate that short-term
 zebrafish embryo cell cultures maintained in the presence of cells from
 a rainbow trout spleen cell line (RTS34st) are able to produce
 germ-line chimeras when introduced into a host embryo. Messenger RNA
 encoding the primordial germ-cell marker, vasa, was
 present for more than 30 days in embryo cells cocultured with RTS34st
 cells or their conditioned medium and disappeared by 5 days in the
 absence of the spleen cells. The RTS34st cells also inhibited
 melanocyte and neuronal cell differentiation in the embryo cell
 cultures. These results suggest that the RTS34st splenic–stromal cell
 line will be a valuable tool in the development of a cell-based gene
 transfer approach to targeted gene inactivation in zebrafish.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a universally applicable system for conditional
 gene expression in embryonic stem (ES) cells that relies on
 tamoxifen-dependent Cre recombinase-loxP site-mediated recombination
 and bicistronic gene-trap expression vectors that allow transgene
 expression from endogenous cellular promoters. Two vectors
 were introduced into the genome of recipient ES cells, successively:
 (i) a bicistronic gene-trap vector encoding the
 β-galactosidase/neoR fusion protein and the
 Cre-ERT2 (Cre recombinase fused to a mutated ligand-binding
 domain of the human estrogen receptor) and (ii) a
 bicistronic gene-trap vector encoding the hygroR protein
 and the human alkaline phosphatase (hAP), the expression of which is
 prevented by tandemly repeated stop-of-transcription sequences flanked
 by loxP sites. In selected clones, hAP expression was shown to be
 regulated accurately by 4′hydroxy-tamoxifen. Strict hormone-dependent
 expression of hAP was achieved (i) in
 vitro in undifferentiated ES cells and embryoid bodies,
 (ii) in vivo in virtually all the tissues
 of the 10-day-old chimeric fetus (after injection of
 4′hydroxy-tamoxifen to foster mothers), and (iii)
 ex vivo in primary embryonic fibroblasts isolated from
 chimeric fetuses. Therefore, this approach can be applied to drive
 conditional expression of virtually any transgene in a large variety of
 cell types, both in vitro and in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The subseafloor at the mid-ocean ridge is predicted to be an
 excellent microbial habitat, because there is abundant space, fluid
 flow, and geochemical energy in the porous, hydrothermally influenced
 oceanic crust. These characteristics also make it a good analog for
 potential subsurface extraterrestrial habitats. Subseafloor
 environments created by the mixing of hot hydrothermal fluids and
 seawater are predicted to be particularly energy-rich, and
 hyperthermophilic microorganisms that broadly reflect such predictions
 are ejected from these systems in low-temperature (≈15°C),
 basalt-hosted diffuse effluents. Seven hyperthermophilic heterotrophs
 isolated from low-temperature diffuse fluids exiting the basaltic crust
 in and near two hydrothermal vent fields on the Endeavour Segment, Juan
 de Fuca Ridge, were compared phylogenetically and physiologically to
 six similarly enriched hyperthermophiles from samples associated with
 seafloor metal sulfide structures. The 13 organisms fell into four
 distinct groups: one group of two organisms corresponding to the genus
 Pyrococcus and three groups corresponding to the genus
 Thermococcus. Of these three groups, one was composed
 solely of sulfide-derived organisms, and the other two related groups
 were composed of subseafloor organisms. There was no evidence of
 restricted exchange of organisms between sulfide and subseafloor
 habitats, and therefore this phylogenetic distinction indicates a
 selective force operating between the two habitats. Hypotheses
 regarding the habitat differences were generated through comparison of
 the physiology of the two groups of hyperthermophiles; some potential
 differences between these habitats include fluid flow stability, metal
 ion concentrations, and sources of complex organic matter.
DOC DONE!Abstract
With increasing interest in the effects of elevated atmospheric
 CO2 on plant growth and the global carbon balance, there is
 a need for greater understanding of how plants respond to variations in
 atmospheric partial pressure of CO2. Our research shows
 that elevated CO2 produces significant fine structural
 changes in major cellular organelles that appear to be an important
 component of the metabolic responses of plants to this global change.
 Nine species (representing seven plant families) in several
 experimental facilities with different CO2-dosing
 technologies were examined. Growth in elevated CO2
 increased numbers of mitochondria per unit cell area by 1.3–2.4 times
 the number in control plants grown in lower CO2 and
 produced a statistically significant increase in the amount of
 chloroplast stroma (nonappressed) thylakoid membranes compared with
 those in lower CO2 treatments. There was no observable
 change in size of the mitochondria. However, in contrast to the
 CO2 effect on mitochondrial number, elevated
 CO2 promoted a decrease in the rate of mass-based dark
 respiration. These changes may reflect a major shift in plant
 metabolism and energy balance that may help to explain enhanced plant
 productivity in response to elevated atmospheric CO2
 concentrations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Leaf dark respiration (R) is an important component
 of plant carbon balance, but the effects of rising atmospheric
 CO2 on leaf R during illumination are
 largely unknown. We studied the effects of elevated CO2 on
 leaf R in light (RL) and in
 darkness (RD) in Xanthium
 strumarium at different developmental stages. Leaf
 RL was estimated by using the Kok method,
 whereas leaf RD was measured as the rate of
 CO2 efflux at zero light. Leaf
 RL and RD were
 significantly higher at elevated than at ambient CO2
 throughout the growing period. Elevated CO2 increased the
 ratio of leaf RL to net photosynthesis at
 saturated light (Amax) when plants were
 young and also after flowering, but the ratio of leaf
 RD to Amax was
 unaffected by CO2 levels. Leaf
 RN was significantly higher at the beginning
 but significantly lower at the end of the growing period in elevated
 CO2-grown plants. The ratio of leaf
 RL to RD was used
 to estimate the effect of light on leaf R during the
 day. We found that light inhibited leaf R at both
 CO2 concentrations but to a lesser degree for elevated
 (17–24%) than for ambient (29–35%) CO2-grown plants,
 presumably because elevated CO2-grown plants had a higher
 demand for energy and carbon skeletons than ambient
 CO2-grown plants in light. Our results suggest that using
 the CO2 efflux rate, determined by shading leaves during
 the day, as a measure for leaf R is likely to
 underestimate carbon loss from elevated CO2-grown plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two Amerindian demographic shifts are attributed to climate change
 in the northwest plains of North America: at ≈11,000 calendar years
 before present (yr BP), Amerindian culture apparently split into
 foothills–mountains vs. plains biomes; and from 8,000–5,000 yr BP,
 scarce archaeological sites on the open plains suggest emigration
 during xeric “Altithermal” conditions. We reconstructed
 paleoclimates from stable isotopes in prehistoric bison bone and
 relations between weather and fractions of C4 plants in
 forage. Further, we developed a climate-change model that synthesized
 stable isotope, existing qualitative evidence (e.g., palynological,
 erosional), and global climate mechanisms affecting this midlatitude
 region. Our isotope data indicate significant warming from ≈12,400 to
 11,900 yr BP, supporting climate-driven cultural separation. However,
 isotope evidence of apparently wet, warm conditions at 7,300 yr BP
 refutes emigration to avoid xeric conditions. Scarcity of
 archaeological sites is best explained by rapid climate fluctuations
 after catastrophic draining of the Laurentide Lakes, which disrupted
 North Atlantic Deep Water production and subsequently altered monsoonal
 inputs to the open plains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Global declines in amphibians likely have multiple causes,
 including widespread pesticide use. Our knowledge of pesticide effects
 on amphibians is largely limited to short-term (4-d) toxicity tests
 conducted under highly artificial conditions to determine lethal
 concentrations (LC50). We found that if we used slightly longer
 exposure times (10–16 d), low concentrations of the pesticide carbaryl
 (3–4% of LC504-d) killed 10–60% of gray treefrog
 (Hyla versicolor) tadpoles. If predatory cues also were
 present, the pesticide became 2–4 times more lethal, killing 60–98%
 of tadpoles. Thus, under more realistic conditions of increased
 exposure times and predatory stress, current application rates for
 carbaryl can potentially devastate gray treefrog populations. Further,
 because predator-induced stress is ubiquitous in animals and
 carbaryl's mode of action is common to many pesticides, these negative
 impacts may be widespread in nature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
McKay et al. [(1996) Science 273,
 924–930] suggested that carbonate globules in the meteorite ALH84001
 contained the fossil remains of Martian microbes. We have characterized
 a subpopulation of magnetite (Fe3O4) crystals
 present in abundance within the Fe-rich rims of these carbonate
 globules. We find these Martian magnetites to be both chemically and
 physically identical to terrestrial, biogenically precipitated,
 intracellular magnetites produced by magnetotactic bacteria strain
 MV-1. Specifically, both magnetite populations are single-domain and
 chemically pure, and exhibit a unique crystal habit we describe as
 truncated hexa-octahedral. There are no known reports of inorganic
 processes to explain the observation of truncated hexa-octahedral
 magnetites in a terrestrial sample. In bacteria strain MV-1 their
 presence is therefore likely a product of Natural Selection. Unless
 there is an unknown and unexplained inorganic process on Mars that is
 conspicuously absent on the Earth and forms truncated hexa-octahedral
 magnetites, we suggest that these magnetite crystals in the Martian
 meteorite ALH84001 were likely produced by a biogenic process. As such,
 these crystals are interpreted as Martian magnetofossils and constitute
 evidence of the oldest life yet found.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The evolution of O2-producing cyanobacteria that
 use water as terminal reductant transformed Earth's atmosphere to one
 suitable for the evolution of aerobic metabolism and complex life. The
 innovation of water oxidation freed photosynthesis to invade new
 environments and visibly changed the face of the Earth. We offer a new
 hypothesis for how this process evolved, which identifies two critical
 roles for carbon dioxide in the Archean period. First, we present a
 thermodynamic analysis showing that bicarbonate (formed by dissolution
 of CO2) is a more efficient alternative substrate than
 water for O2 production by oxygenic phototrophs. This
 analysis clarifies the origin of the long debated “bicarbonate
 effect” on photosynthetic O2 production. We propose that
 bicarbonate was the thermodynamically preferred reductant before water
 in the evolution of oxygenic photosynthesis. Second, we have examined
 the speciation of manganese(II) and bicarbonate in water, and find that
 they form Mn-bicarbonate clusters as the major species under conditions
 that model the chemistry of the Archean sea. These clusters have been
 found to be highly efficient precursors for the assembly of the
 tetramanganese-oxide core of the water-oxidizing enzyme during
 biogenesis. We show that these clusters can be oxidized at
 electrochemical potentials that are accessible to anoxygenic
 phototrophs and thus the most likely building blocks for assembly of
 the first O2 evolving photoreaction center, most likely
 originating from green nonsulfur bacteria before the evolution of
 cyanobacteria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
When many protein sequences are available for estimating the time
 of divergence between two species, it is customary to estimate the time
 for each protein separately and then use the average for all proteins
 as the final estimate. However, it can be shown that this estimate
 generally has an upward bias, and that an unbiased estimate is obtained
 by using distances based on concatenated sequences. We have shown that
 two concatenation-based distances, i.e., average gamma distance
 weighted with sequence length (d2) and
 multiprotein gamma distance (d3), generally
 give more satisfactory results than other concatenation-based
 distances. Using these two distance measures for 104 protein sequences,
 we estimated the time of divergence between mice and rats to be
 approximately 33 million years ago. Similarly, the time of divergence
 between humans and rodents was estimated to be approximately 96 million
 years ago. We also investigated the dependency of time estimates on
 statistical methods and various assumptions made by using sequence data
 from eubacteria, protists, plants, fungi, and animals. Our best
 estimates of the times of divergence between eubacteria and eukaryotes,
 between protists and other eukaryotes, and between plants, fungi, and
 animals were 3, 1.7, and 1.3 billion years ago, respectively. However,
 estimates of ancient divergence times are subject to a substantial
 amount of error caused by uncertainty of the molecular clock,
 horizontal gene transfer, errors in sequence alignments, etc.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Macromolecular transport systems in bacteria currently are
 classified by function and sequence comparisons into five basic types.
 In this classification system, type II and type IV secretion systems
 both possess members of a superfamily of genes for putative NTP
 hydrolase (NTPase) proteins that are strikingly similar in structure,
 function, and sequence. These include VirB11, TrbB, TraG, GspE, PilB,
 PilT, and ComG1. The predicted protein product of tadA,
 a recently discovered gene required for tenacious adherence of
 Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, also has
 significant sequence similarity to members of this superfamily and to
 several unclassified and uncharacterized gene products of both Archaea
 and Bacteria. To understand the relationship of tadA and
 tadA-like genes to those encoding the putative NTPases
 of type II/IV secretion, we used a phylogenetic approach to obtain a
 genealogy of 148 NTPase genes and reconstruct a scenario of gene
 superfamily evolution. In this phylogeny, clear distinctions can be
 made between type II and type IV families and their constituent
 subfamilies. In addition, the subgroup containing tadA
 constitutes a novel and extremely widespread subfamily of the family
 encompassing all putative NTPases of type IV secretion systems. We
 report diagnostic amino acid residue positions for each major
 monophyletic family and subfamily in the phylogenetic tree, and we
 propose an easy method for precisely classifying and naming putative
 NTPase genes based on phylogeny. This molecular key-based method can be
 applied to other gene superfamilies and represents a valuable tool for
 genome analysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rapid evolution driven by positive Darwinian selection is a
 recurrent theme in male reproductive protein evolution. In contrast,
 positive selection has never been demonstrated for female reproductive
 proteins. Here, we perform phylogeny-based tests on three female
 mammalian fertilization proteins and demonstrate positive selection
 promoting their divergence. Two of these female fertilization proteins,
 the zona pellucida glycoproteins ZP2 and ZP3, are part of the mammalian
 egg coat. Several sites identified in ZP3 as likely to be under
 positive selection are located in a region previously demonstrated to
 be involved in species-specific sperm-egg interaction, suggesting the
 selective pressure is related to male-female interaction. The results
 provide long-sought evidence for two evolutionary hypotheses: sperm
 competition and sexual conflict.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The F-box protein Skp2 (S-phase kinase-associated
 protein 2) positively regulates the G1-S transition by
 controlling the stability of several G1 regulators, such as
 the cell cycle inhibitor p27. We show here that Skp2 expression
 correlates directly with grade of malignancy and inversely with p27
 levels in human lymphomas. To directly evaluate the potential of Skp2
 to deregulate growth in vivo, we generated transgenic
 mice expressing Skp2 targeted to the T-lymphoid lineage as well as
 double transgenic mice coexpressing Skp2 and activated N-Ras. A strong
 cooperative effect between these two transgenes induced T cell
 lymphomas with shorter latency and higher penetrance, leading to
 significantly decreased survival when compared with control and single
 transgenic animals. Furthermore, lymphomas of Nras
 single transgenic animals often expressed higher levels of
 endogenous Skp2 than tumors of double transgenic mice. This
 study provides evidence of a role for an F-box protein in
 oncogenesis and establishes SKP2 as a protooncogene
 causally involved in the pathogenesis of lymphomas.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The extremely halophilic archaeon Halobacterium sp.
 NRC-1 can grow phototrophically by means of light-driven proton pumping
 by bacteriorhodopsin in the purple membrane. Here,
 we show by genetic analysis of the wild type, and insertion and
 double-frame shift mutants of Bat that this transcriptional regulator
 coordinates synthesis of a structural protein and a chromophore for
 purple membrane biogenesis in response to both light and oxygen.
 Analysis of the complete Halobacterium sp. NRC-1 genome
 sequence showed that the regulatory site, upstream activator sequence
 (UAS), the putative binding site for Bat upstream of the bacterio-opsin
 gene (bop), is also present upstream to the other
 Bat-regulated genes. The transcription regulator Bat contains a
 photoresponsive cGMP-binding (GAF) domain, and a bacterial AraC type
 helix–turn–helix DNA binding motif. We also provide evidence for
 involvement of the PAS/PAC domain of Bat in redox-sensing activity by
 genetic analysis of a purple membrane overproducer. Five additional
 Bat-like putative regulatory genes were found, which together are
 likely to be responsible for orchestrating the complex response of this
 archaeon to light and oxygen. Similarities of the
 bop-like UAS and transcription factors in diverse
 organisms, including a plant and a γ-proteobacterium, suggest an
 ancient origin for this regulon capable of coordinating light and
 oxygen responses in the three major branches of the evolutionary tree
 of life. Finally, sensitivity of four of five regulon genes to DNA
 supercoiling is demonstrated and correlated to presence of alternating
 purine–pyrimidine sequences (RY boxes) near the regulated promoters.
DOC DONE!Abstract
KCNQ1 encodes KCNQ1, which belongs to a family
 of voltage-dependent K+ ion channel proteins. KCNQ1
 associates with a regulatory subunit, KCNE1, to produce the cardiac
 repolarizing current, IKs. Loss-of-function
 mutations in the human KCNQ1 gene have been linked to
 Jervell and Lange–Nielsen Syndrome (JLNS), a disorder characterized by
 profound bilateral deafness and a cardiac phenotype. To generate a
 mouse model for JLNS, we created a line of transgenic mice that have a
 targeted disruption in the Kcnq1 gene. Behavioral
 analysis revealed that the Kcnq1−/− mice
 are deaf and exhibit a shaker/waltzer phenotype. Histological
 analysis of the inner ear structures of
 Kcnq1−/− mice revealed gross morphological
 anomalies because of the drastic reduction in the volume of endolymph.
 ECGs recorded from Kcnq1−/− mice
 demonstrated abnormal T- and P-wave morphologies and prolongation of
 the QT and JT intervals when measured in vivo, but not
 in isolated hearts. These changes are indicative of cardiac
 repolarization defects that appear to be induced by extracardiac
 signals. Together, these data suggest that
 Kcnq1−/− mice are a potentially valuable
 animal model of JLNS.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Somatic mosaicism has been observed previously in the
 lymphocyte population of patients with Fanconi anemia (FA). To identify
 the cellular origin of the genotypic reversion, we examined each
 lymphohematopoietic and stromal cell lineage in an FA patient with a
 2815–2816ins19 mutation in FANCA and known lymphocyte
 somatic mosaicism. DNA extracted from individually plucked peripheral
 blood T cell colonies and marrow colony-forming unit
 granulocyte–macrophage and burst-forming unit erythroid cells revealed
 absence of the maternal FANCA exon 29 mutation in
 74.0%, 80.3%, and 86.2% of colonies, respectively. These data,
 together with the absence of the FANCA exon 29 mutation
 in Epstein–Barr virus-transformed B cells and its presence in
 fibroblasts, indicate that genotypic reversion, most likely because of
 back mutation, originated in a lymphohematopoietic stem cell and not
 solely in a lymphocyte population. Contrary to a predicted increase in
 marrow cellularity resulting from reversion in a hematopoietic stem
 cell, pancytopenia was progressive. Additional evaluations revealed a
 partial deletion of 11q in 3 of 20 bone marrow metaphase cells. By
 using interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization with
 an MLL gene probe mapped to band 11q23 to identify colony-forming unit
 granulocyte–macrophage and burst-forming unit erythroid cells with the
 11q deletion, the abnormal clone was exclusive to colonies with the
 FANCA exon 29 mutation. Thus, we demonstrate the
 spontaneous genotypic reversion in a lymphohematopoietic stem cell. The
 subsequent development of a clonal cytogenetic abnormality in
 nonrevertant cells suggests that ex vivo correction of
 hematopoietic stem cells by gene transfer may not be sufficient for
 providing life-long stable hematopoiesis in patients with FA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The abundant chromosome abnormalities in most carcinomas are
 probably a reflection of genomic instability present in the tumor, so
 the pattern and variability of chromosome abnormalities will reflect
 the mechanism of instability combined with the effects of selection.
 Chromosome rearrangement was investigated in 17 colorectal
 carcinoma-derived cell lines. Comparative genomic hybridization showed
 that the chromosome changes were representative of those found in
 primary tumors. Spectral karyotyping (SKY) showed that translocations
 were very varied and mostly unbalanced, with no translocation occurring
 in more than three lines. At least three karyotype patterns could be
 distinguished. Some lines had few chromosome abnormalities: they all
 showed microsatellite instability, the replication error (RER)+
 phenotype. Most lines had many chromosome abnormalities: at least seven
 showed a surprisingly consistent pattern, characterized by multiple
 unbalanced translocations and intermetaphase variation, with chromosome
 numbers around triploid, 6–16 structural aberrations, and similarities
 in gains and losses. Almost all of these were RER−, but one, LS411,
 was RER+. The line HCA7 showed a novel pattern, suggesting a third kind
 of genomic instability: multiple reciprocal translocations, with little
 numerical change or variability. This line was also RER+. The
 coexistence in one tumor of two kinds of genomic instability is to be
 expected if the underlying defects are selected for in tumor evolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have generated transgenic medaka (teleost, Oryzias
 latipes), which allow us to monitor germ cells by green
 fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence in live specimens. Two medaka
 strains, himedaka (orange–red variety) and inbred QurtE, were used.
 The transgenic lines were achieved by microinjection of a construct
 containing the putative promoter region and 3′ region of the medaka
 vasa gene (olvas). The intensity of GFP
 fluorescence increases dramatically in primordial germ cells (PGCs)
 located in the ventrolateral region of the posterior intestine around
 stage 25 (the onset of blood circulation). Whole-mount in
 situ hybridization and monitoring of ectopically located cells
 by GFP fluorescence suggested that (i) the increase in
 zygotic olvas expression occurs after PGC specification
 and (ii) PGCs can maintain their cell characteristics
 ectopically after stages 20–25. Around the day of hatching, the QurtE
 strain clearly exhibits sexual dimorphisms in the number of GFP
 fluorescent germ cells, a finding consistent with the appearance of
 leucophores, a sex-specific marker of QurtE. The GFP expression
 persists throughout the later stages in the mature ovary and testis.
 Thus, these transgenic medaka represent a live vertebrate model to
 investigate how germ cells migrate to form sexually dimorphic gonads,
 as well as a potential assay system for environmental substances that
 may affect gonad development. The use of a transgenic construct as a
 selective marker to efficiently isolate germ-line-transmitting founders
 during embryogenesis is also discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The yeast transcriptional repressor Tup1, tethered to DNA,
 represses to strikingly different degrees transcription elicited by
 members of two classes of activators. Repression in both cases is
 virtually eliminated by mutation of either member of the cyclin-kinase
 pair Srb10/11. In contrast, telomeric chromatin affects both classes
 of activators equally, and in neither case is that repression affected
 by mutation of Srb10/11. In vitro, Tup1 interacts with
 RNA polymerase II holoenzyme bearing Srb10 as well as with the
 separated Srb10. These and other findings indicate that at least one
 aspect of Tup1's action involves interaction with the RNA polymerase
 II holoenzyme.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gene expression profiling provides powerful analyses of
 transcriptional responses to cellular perturbation. In contrast to DNA
 array-based methods, reporter gene technology has been underused for
 this application. Here we describe a genomewide, genome-registered
 collection of Escherichia coli bioluminescent reporter
 gene fusions. DNA sequences from plasmid-borne, random fusions of
 E. coli chromosomal DNA to a Photorhabdus
 luminescens luxCDABE reporter allowed precise mapping of each
 fusion. The utility of this collection covering about 30% of the
 transcriptional units was tested by analyzing individual fusions
 representative of heat shock, SOS, OxyR, SoxRS, and
 cya/crp stress-responsive regulons. Each fusion strain
 responded as anticipated to environmental conditions known to activate
 the corresponding regulatory circuit. Thus, the collection mirrors
 E. coli's transcriptional wiring diagram. This
 genomewide collection of gene fusions provides an independent test of
 results from other gene expression analyses. Accordingly, a DNA
 microarray-based analysis of mitomycin C-treated E. coli
 indicated elevated expression of expected and unanticipated genes.
 Selected luxCDABE fusions corresponding to these
 up-regulated genes were used to confirm or contradict the DNA
 microarray results. The power of partnering gene fusion and DNA
 microarray technology to discover promoters and define operons was
 demonstrated when data from both suggested that a cluster of 20 genes
 encoding production of type I extracellular polysaccharide in E.
 coli form a single operon.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) p55-knockout (KO) mice are
 susceptible profoundly to Salmonella infection. One day
 after peritoneal inoculation, TNFR-KO mice harbor 1,000-fold more
 bacteria in liver and spleen than wild-type mice despite the formation
 of well organized granulomas. Macrophages from TNFR-KO mice produce
 abundant quantities of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species in response
 to Salmonella but nevertheless exhibit poor bactericidal
 activity. Treatment with IFN-γ enhances killing by wild-type
 macrophages but does not restore the killing defect of TNFR-KO cells.
 Bactericidal activity of macrophages can be abrogated by a deletion in
 the gene encoding TNFα but not by saturating concentrations of
 TNF-soluble receptor, suggesting that intracellular TNFα can regulate
 killing of Salmonella by macrophages. Peritoneal
 macrophages from TNFR-KO mice fail to localize NADPH oxidase-containing
 vesicles to Salmonella-containing vacuoles. A TNFR-KO
 mutation substantially restores virulence to an attenuated mutant
 bacterial strain lacking the type III secretory system encoded by
 Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 (SPI2), suggesting
 that TNFα and SPI2 have opposing actions on a common pathway of
 vesicular trafficking. TNFα–TNFRp55 signaling plays a critical role
 in the immediate innate immune response to an intracellular pathogen by
 optimizing the delivery of toxic reactive oxygen species to the
 phagosome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Signal transduction in response to ligand recognition by T cell
 receptors regulates T cell fate within and beyond the thymus. Herein we
 examine the involvement of the CD4 molecule in the regulation of T
 helper cell survival. T helper cells that lack CD4 expression are prone
 to apoptosis and show diminished survival after adoptive
 transfer to irradiated recipients. The helper lineage in
 CD4−/− animals shows a higher than normal apparent rate
 of cell division and is also enriched for cells exhibiting a memory
 cell phenotype. Thus the data point to a necessary role for CD4 in the
 regulation of T helper cell survival and homeostasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Humans who have inherited the class I major histocompatibility
 allele HLA-A29 have a markedly increased relative risk of developing
 the eye disease termed birdshot chorioretinopathy. This disease
 affecting adults is characterized by symmetrically scattered, small,
 cream-colored spots in the fundus associated with retinal vasculopathy
 and inflammatory signs causing damage to the ocular structures, leading
 regularly to visual loss. To investigate the role of HLA-A29 in this
 disease, we introduced the HLA-A29 gene into mice. Aging HLA-A29
 transgenic mice spontaneously developed retinopathy, showing a striking
 resemblance to the HLA-A29-associated chorioretinopathy. These results
 strongly suggest that HLA-A29 is involved in the pathogenesis of this
 disease. Elucidation of the role of HLA-A29 should be assisted by this
 transgenic model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this study, we investigated the role of Vα14 natural killer T
 (NKT) cells in transplant immunity. The ability to reject allografts
 was not significantly different between wild-type (WT) and Vα14 NKT
 cell-deficient mice. However, in models in which tolerance was induced
 against cardiac allografts by blockade of lymphocyte
 function-associated antigen-1/intercellular adhesion molecule-1 or
 CD28/B7 interactions, long-term acceptance of the grafts was observed
 only in WT but not Vα14 NKT cell-deficient mice. Adoptive transfer
 with Vα14 NKT cells restored long-term acceptance of allografts in
 Vα14 NKT cell-deficient mice. The critical role of Vα14 NKT cells
 to mediate immunosuppression was also observed in vitro
 in mixed lymphocyte cultures in which lymphocyte function-associated
 antigen-1/intercellular adhesion molecule-1 or CD28/B7 interactions
 were blocked. Experiments using IL-4- or IFN-γ-deficient mice
 suggested a critical contribution of IFN-γ to the Vα14 NKT
 cell-mediated allograft acceptance in vivo. These
 results indicate a critical contribution of Vα14 NKT cells to the
 induction of allograft tolerance and provide a useful model to
 investigate the regulatory role of Vα14 NKT cells in various immune
 responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Btk is a critical molecule in B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-coupled
 signaling, and its activity is regulated by Lyn and Syk. Although the
 molecular mechanism of Lyn-dependent Btk activation has been
 investigated, that of Syk-dependent Btk activation has remained
 unidentified. We have demonstrated that BLNK mediates Syk-dependent Btk
 activation. In a reconstitution cell system, coexpression of BLNK
 allows Syk to phosphorylate Btk on its tyrosine 551, leading to the
 enhancement of Btk activity. This phosphorylation depends on the
 interaction of Btk and BLNK by means of the Btk-Src homology 2 domain.
 The existence of such an activation mechanism is supported by the
 observation that the BCR-induced Btk phosphorylation and activation are
 significantly reduced in BLNK-deficient B cells as well as in
 Syk-deficient B cells. Although previous observations have identified
 the function of BLNK as the linker that integrates the action of Btk
 and Syk into downstream effectors such as phospholipase Cγ2, our
 present study indicates another function of BLNK that connects the
 activity of Syk to that of Btk.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Similarities in the phenotypes of mice deficient for cytotoxic T
 lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) or transforming growth factor-β1
 (TGF-β1) and other observations have led to speculation that CTLA-4
 mediates its inhibitory effect on T cell activation via costimulation
 of TGF-β production. Here, we examine the role of TGF-β in
 CTLA-4-mediated inhibition of T cell activation and of CTLA-4 in the
 regulation of TGF-β production. Activation of AND TCR transgenic
 mouse T cells with costimulatory receptor-specific antigen presenting
 cells results in efficient costimulation of proliferation by CD28
 ligation and inhibition by CTLA-4 ligation. Neutralizing antibody to
 TGF-β does not reverse CTLA-4-mediated inhibition. Also, CTLA-4
 ligation equally inhibits proliferation of wild-type,
 TGF-β1−/−, and Smad3−/− T cells.
 Further, CTLA-4 engagement does not result in the increased production
 of either latent or active TGF-β by CD4+ T cells. These
 results indicate that CTLA-4 ligation does not regulate TGF-β
 production and that CTLA-4-mediated inhibition can occur independently
 of TGF-β. Collectively, these data demonstrate that CTLA-4 and
 TGF-β represent distinct mechanisms for regulation of T cell
 responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aberrant blood vessel growth in the retina that underlies the
 pathology of proliferative diabetic retinopathy and retinopathy of
 prematurity is the result of the ischemia-driven disruption of the
 normally antiangiogenic environment of the retina. In this study, we
 show that a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis found naturally in the
 normal eye, pigment epithelium-derived growth factor (PEDF), inhibits
 such aberrant blood vessel growth in a murine model of ischemia-induced
 retinopathy. Inhibition was proportional to dose and systemic delivery
 of recombinant protein at daily doses as low as 2.2 mg/kg could
 prevent aberrant endothelial cells from crossing the inner limiting
 membrane. PEDF appeared to inhibit angiogenesis by causing
 apoptosis of activated endothelial cells, because it induced
 apoptosis in cultured endothelial cells and an 8-fold increase
 in apoptotic endothelial cells could be detected in
 situ when the ischemic retinas of PEDF-treated animals were
 compared with vehicle-treated controls. The ability of low doses of
 PEDF to curtail aberrant growth of ocular endothelial cells without
 overt harm to retinal morphology suggests that this natural protein may
 be beneficial in the treatment of a variety of retinal vasculopathies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear
 hormone receptors that have been implicated in a variety of biologic
 processes. The PPARδ isotype was recently proposed as a downstream
 target of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)/β-catenin
 pathway in colorectal carcinogenesis. To evaluate its role in
 tumorigenesis, a PPARδ null cell line was created by targeted
 homologous recombination. When inoculated as xenografts in nude mice,
 PPARδ −/− cells exhibited a decreased ability to form tumors
 compared with PPARδ +/− and wild-type controls. These data suggest
 that suppression of PPARδ expression contributes to the
 growth-inhibitory effects of the APC tumor suppressor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nitric oxide (NO) plays a critical role in vascular endothelial
 growth factor (VEGF)-induced angiogenesis and vascular
 hyperpermeability. However, the relative contribution of different NO
 synthase (NOS) isoforms to these processes is not known. Here, we
 evaluated the relative contributions of endothelial and inducible NOS
 (eNOS and iNOS, respectively) to angiogenesis and permeability of
 VEGF-induced angiogenic vessels. The contribution of eNOS was assessed
 by using an eNOS-deficient mouse, and iNOS contribution
 was assessed by using a selective inhibitor
 [l-N6-(1-iminoethyl) lysine,
 l-NIL] and an iNOS-deficient mouse.
 Angiogenesis was induced by VEGF in type I collagen gels placed in the
 mouse cranial window. Angiogenesis, vessel diameter, blood flow rate,
 and vascular permeability were proportional to NO levels measured with
 microelectrodes: Wild-type (WT) ≥ WT with l-NIL or
 iNOS−/− >
 eNOS−/− ≥
 eNOS−/− with l-NIL. The role
 of NOS in VEGF-induced acute vascular permeability increase in
 quiescent vessels also was determined by using eNOS- and
 iNOS-deficient mice. VEGF superfusion significantly
 increased permeability in both WT and
 iNOS−/− mice but not in
 eNOS−/− mice. These findings suggest that
 eNOS plays a predominant role in VEGF-induced angiogenesis and vascular
 permeability. Thus, selective modulation of eNOS activity is a
 promising strategy for altering angiogenesis and vascular permeability
 in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A common feature of many metabolic pathways is their control by
 retinoid X receptor (RXR) heterodimers. Dysregulation of such metabolic
 pathways can lead to the development of atherosclerosis, a disease
 influenced by both systemic and local factors. Here we analyzed the
 effects of activation of RXR and some of its heterodimers in
 apolipoprotein E −/− mice, a well established animal model of
 atherosclerosis. An RXR agonist drastically reduced the development of
 atherosclerosis. In addition, a ligand for the peroxisome
 proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)γ and a dual agonist of both
 PPARα and PPARγ had moderate inhibitory effects. Both RXR and liver
 X receptor (LXR) agonists induced ATP-binding cassette protein 1
 (ABC-1) expression and stimulated ABC-1-mediated cholesterol efflux
 from macrophages from wild-type, but not from LXRα and β double
 −/−, mice. Hence, activation of ABC-1-mediated cholesterol efflux
 by the RXR/LXR heterodimer might contribute to the beneficial effects
 of rexinoids on atherosclerosis and warrant further evaluation of
 RXR/LXR agonists in prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The development of drugs for the control of tumor angiogenesis
 requires a simple, accurate, and economical assay for tumor-induced
 vascularization. We have adapted the orthotopic implantation model to
 angiogenesis measurement by using human tumors labeled with
 Aequorea victoria green fluorescent protein for grafting
 into nude mice. The nonluminous induced capillaries are clearly visible
 against the very bright tumor fluorescence examined either intravitally
 or by whole-body luminance in real time. The orthotopic implantation
 model of human cancer has been well characterized, and fluorescence
 shadowing replaces the laborious histological techniques for
 determining blood vessel density. Intravital images of orthotopically
 implanted human pancreatic tumors clearly show angiogenic capillaries
 at both primary and metastatic sites. A quantitative time course of
 angiogenesis was determined for an orthotopically growing human
 prostate tumor periodically imaged intravitally in a single nude mouse
 over a 19-day period. Whole-body optical imaging of tumor angiogenesis
 was demonstrated by injecting fluorescent Lewis lung carcinoma cells
 into the s.c. site of the footpad of nude mice. The footpad is
 relatively transparent, with comparatively few resident blood vessels,
 allowing quantitative imaging of tumor angiogenesis in the intact
 animal. Capillary density increased linearly over a 10-day period as
 determined by whole-body imaging. Similarly, the green fluorescent
 protein-expressing human breast tumor MDA-MB-435 was orthotopically
 transplanted to the mouse fat pad, where whole-body optical imaging
 showed that blood vessel density increased linearly over a 20-week
 period. These powerful and clinically relevant angiogenesis mouse
 models can be used for real-time in vivo evaluation of
 agents inhibiting or promoting tumor angiogenesis in physiological
 microenvironments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A wealth of evidence supports increased NO (NO⋅) in asthma,
 but its roles are unknown. To investigate how NO participates in
 inflammatory airway events in asthma, we measured NO⋅ and
 NO⋅ chemical reaction products [nitrite, nitrate,
 S-nitrosothiols (SNO), and nitrotyrosine] before,
 immediately and 48 h after bronchoscopic antigen (Ag) challenge of
 the peripheral airways in atopic asthmatic individuals and nonatopic
 healthy controls. Strikingly, NO was the only
 NO⋅ derivative to increase during the immediate Ag-induced
 asthmatic response and continued to increase over 2-fold at 48 h
 after Ag challenge in contrast to controls [P <
 0.05]. NO was not affected by Ag challenge at 10
 min or 48 h after Ag challenge. Although SNO was not detectable in
 asthmatic airways at baseline or immediately after Ag, SNO increased
 during the late response to levels found in healthy controls. A model
 of NO⋅ dynamics derived from the current findings predicts that
 NO⋅ may have harmful effects through formation of peroxynitrite,
 but also subserves an antioxidant role by consuming reactive oxygen
 species during the immediate asthmatic response, whereas nitrosylation
 during the late asthmatic response generates SNO, safe reservoirs for
 removal of toxic NO⋅ derivatives.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), T helper cells exhibit
 increased and prolonged expression of cell-surface CD40 ligand (CD154),
 spontaneously overproduce interleukin-10 (IL-10), but underproduce
 interferon-gamma (IFN-γ). We tested the hypothesis that the imbalance
 of these gene products reflects skewed expression of
 CD154, IL-10, and IFN-γ
 genes. Here, we demonstrate that the histone deacetylase inhibitor,
 trichostatin A, significantly down-regulated CD154 and
 IL-10 and up-regulated IFN-γ gene
 expression in SLE T cells. This reversal corrected the aberrant
 expression of these gene products, thereby enhancing IFN-γ production
 and inhibiting IL-10 and CD154 expression. That trichostatin A can
 simultaneously reverse the skewed expression of multiple genes
 implicated in the immunopathogenesis of SLE suggests that this
 pharmacologic agent may be a candidate for the treatment of this
 autoimmune disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tissue kallikrein is a serine protease thought to be involved in
 the generation of bioactive peptide kinins in many organs like the
 kidneys, colon, salivary glands, pancreas, and blood vessels. Low renal
 synthesis and urinary excretion of tissue kallikrein have been
 repeatedly linked to hypertension in animals and humans, but the exact
 role of the protease in cardiovascular function has not been
 established largely because of the lack of specific inhibitors. This
 study demonstrates that mice lacking tissue kallikrein are unable to
 generate significant levels of kinins in most tissues and develop
 cardiovascular abnormalities early in adulthood despite normal blood
 pressure. The heart exhibits septum and posterior wall thinning and a
 tendency to dilatation resulting in reduced left ventricular mass.
 Cardiac function estimated in vivo and in
 vitro is decreased both under basal conditions and in response
 to βadrenergic stimulation. Furthermore, flow-induced
 vasodilatation is impaired in isolated perfused carotid arteries, which
 express, like the heart, low levels of the protease. These data show
 that tissue kallikrein is the main kinin-generating enzyme in
 vivo and that a functional kallikrein–kinin system is
 necessary for normal cardiac and arterial function in the mouse. They
 suggest that the kallikrein–kinin system could be involved in the
 development or progression of cardiovascular diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
One of the fundamental tenets of oncology is that tumors arise from
 stem cells. In the colon, stem cells are thought to reside at the base
 of crypts. In the early stages of tumorigenesis, however, dysplastic
 cells are routinely found at the luminal surface of the crypts whereas
 the cells at the bases of these same crypts appear morphologically
 normal. To understand this discrepancy, we evaluated the molecular
 characteristics of cells isolated from the bases and orifices of the
 same crypts in small colorectal adenomas. We found that the dysplastic
 cells at the tops of the crypts often exhibited genetic alterations of
 adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) and
 neoplasia-associated patterns of gene expression. In contrast, cells
 located at the base of these same crypts did not contain such
 alterations and were not clonally related to the contiguous transformed
 cells above them. These results imply that development of adenomatous
 polyps proceeds through a top-down mechanism. Genetically altered cells
 in the superficial portions of the mucosae spread laterally and
 downward to form new crypts that first connect to preexisting normal
 crypts and eventually replace them.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Early detection is an effective means of reducing cancer mortality.
 Here, we describe a highly sensitive high-throughput screen that can
 identify panels of markers for the early detection of solid tumor cells
 disseminated in peripheral blood. The method is a two-step combination
 of differential display and high-sensitivity cDNA arrays. In a primary
 screen, differential display identified 170 candidate marker genes
 differentially expressed between breast tumor cells and normal breast
 epithelial cells. In a secondary screen, high-sensitivity arrays
 assessed expression levels of these genes in 48 blood samples, 22 from
 healthy volunteers and 26 from breast cancer patients. Cluster analysis
 identified a group of 12 genes that were elevated in the blood of
 cancer patients. Permutation analysis of individual genes defined five
 core genes (P ≤ 0.05, permax test). As
 a group, the 12 genes generally distinguished accurately between
 healthy volunteers and patients with breast cancer. Mean expression
 levels of the 12 genes were elevated in 77% (10 of 13) untreated
 invasive cancer patients, whereas cluster analysis correctly classified
 volunteers and patients (P = 0.0022, Fisher's
 exact test). Quantitative real-time PCR confirmed array results and
 indicated that the sensitivity of the assay (1:2 ×
 108 transcripts) was sufficient to detect disseminated
 solid tumor cells in blood. Expression-based blood assays developed
 with the screening approach described here have the potential to detect
 and classify solid tumor cells originating from virtually any primary
 site in the body.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Caspases are key mediators in liver inflammation and
 apoptosis. In the present study we provide evidence that a
 nitric oxide (NO) derivative of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), NCX-1000
 ([2-(acetyloxy)benzoic acid 3-(nitrooxymethyl)phenyl ester]),
 protects against liver damage in murine models of autoimmune hepatitis
 induced by i.v. injection of Con A or a Fas agonistic antibody, Jo2.
 Con A administration causes CD4+ T lymphocytes to
 accumulate in the liver and up-regulates FasL expression, resulting in
 FasL-mediated cytotoxicity. Cotreating mice with NCX-1000, but not with
 UDCA, protected against liver damage induced by Con A and Jo2,
 inhibited IL-1β, IL-18, and IFN-γ release and caspase 3, 8, and 9
 activation. Studies on HepG2 cells demonstrated that NCX-1000, but not
 UDCA, directly prevented multiple caspase activation induced by Jo2.
 Incubating HepG2 cells with NCX-1000 resulted in intracellular NO
 formation and a DTT-reversible inhibition of proapoptotic
 caspases, suggesting that cysteine S-nitrosylation was the main
 mechanism responsible for caspase inhibition. Collectively, these data
 suggest that NCX-1000 protects against T helper 1-mediated liver
 injury by inhibiting both the proapoptotic and the
 proinflammatory branches of the caspase superfamily.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Prostate stem-cell antigen (PSCA) is a cell-surface antigen
 expressed in normal prostate and overexpressed in prostate cancer
 tissues. PSCA expression is detected in over 80% of patients with
 local disease, and elevated levels of PSCA are correlated with
 increased tumor stage, grade, and androgen independence, including high
 expression in bone metastases. We evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of
 anti-PSCA mAbs in human prostate cancer xenograft mouse models by using
 the androgen-dependent LAPC-9 xenograft and the androgen-independent
 recombinant cell line PC3-PSCA. Two different anti-PSCA mAbs, 1G8
 (IgG1κ) and 3C5 (IgG2aκ), inhibited formation of s.c. and
 orthotopic xenograft tumors in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore,
 administration of anti-PSCA mAbs led to retardation of established
 orthotopic tumor growth and inhibition of metastasis to distant sites,
 resulting in a significant prolongation in the survival of
 tumor-bearing mice. These studies suggest PSCA as an attractive target
 for immunotherapy and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of
 anti-PSCA mAbs for the treatment of local and metastatic prostate
 cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plasmodium falciparum parasites evade the host
 immune system by clonal expression of the variant antigen, P.
 falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1). Antibodies
 to PfEMP1 correlate with development of clinical immunity but are
 predominantly variant-specific. To overcome this major limitation for
 vaccine development, we set out to identify cross-reactive epitopes on
 the surface of parasitized erythrocytes (PEs). We prepared mAbs to the
 cysteine-rich interdomain region 1 (CIDR1) of PfEMP1 that is
 functionally conserved for binding to CD36. Two mAbs, targeting
 different regions of CIDR1, reacted with multiple P.
 falciparum strains expressing variant PfEMP1s. One of these
 mAbs, mAb 6A2-B1, recognized nine of 10 strains tested, failing to
 react with only one strain that does not bind CD36. Flow cytometry with
 Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing variant CIDR1s demonstrated that
 both mAbs recognized the CIDR1 of various CD36-binding PfEMP1s and are
 truly cross-reactive. The demonstration of cross-reactive epitopes on
 the PE surface provides further credence for development of effective
 vaccines against the variant antigen on the surface of P.
 falciparum-infected erythrocytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DC-SIGN, a C-type lectin expressed on the surface of dendritic
 cells (DCs), efficiently binds and transmits HIVs and simian
 immunodeficiency viruses to susceptible cells in trans. A DC-SIGN
 homologue, termed DC-SIGNR, has recently been described. Herein we show
 that DC-SIGNR, like DC-SIGN, can bind to multiple strains of HIV-1,
 HIV-2, and simian immunodeficiency virus and transmit these viruses to
 both T cell lines and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Binding
 of virus to DC-SIGNR was dependent on carbohydrate recognition.
 Immunostaining with a DC-SIGNR-specific antiserum showed that DC-SIGNR
 was expressed on sinusoidal endothelial cells in the liver and on
 endothelial cells in lymph node sinuses and placental villi. The
 presence of this efficient virus attachment factor on multiple
 endothelial cell types indicates that DC-SIGNR could play a role in the
 vertical transmission of primate lentiviruses, in the enabling of HIV
 to traverse the capillary endothelium in some organs, and in the
 presentation of virus to CD4-positive cells in multiple locations
 including lymph nodes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fabry disease is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by a
 deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme α-galactosidase A (α-gal A).
 This enzyme deficiency leads to impaired catabolism of
 α-galactosyl-terminal lipids such as globotriaosylceramide (Gb3).
 Patients develop painful neuropathy and vascular occlusions that
 progressively lead to cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, and renal
 dysfunction and early death. Although enzyme replacement therapy and
 bone marrow transplantation have shown promise in the murine analog of
 Fabry disease, gene therapy holds a strong potential for treating this
 disease in humans. Delivery of the normal α-gal A gene (cDNA) into a
 depot organ such as liver may be sufficient to elicit corrective
 circulating levels of the deficient enzyme. To investigate this
 possibility, a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector encoding human
 α-gal A (rAAV-AGA) was constructed and injected into the hepatic
 portal vein of Fabry mice. Two weeks postinjection, α-gal A
 activity in the livers of rAAV-AGA-injected Fabry mice was 20–35% of
 that of the normal mice. The transduced animals continued to show
 higher α-gal A levels in liver and other tissues compared with the
 untouched Fabry controls as long as 6 months after treatment. In
 parallel to the elevated enzyme levels, we see significant reductions
 in Gb3 levels to near normal at 2 and 5 weeks posttreatment. The lower
 Gb3 levels continued in liver, spleen, and heart, up to 25 weeks with
 no significant immune response to the virus or α-gal A. Also, no
 signs of liver toxicity occurred after the rAAV-AGA administration.
 These findings suggest that an AAV-mediated gene transfer may be useful
 for the treatment of Fabry disease and possibly other metabolic
 disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ability to isolate fetal nucleated red blood cells (NRBCs) from
 the maternal circulation makes possible prenatal genetic analysis
 without the need for diagnostic procedures that are invasive for the
 fetus. Such isolation requires antibodies specific to fetal NRBCs. To
 generate a panel of antibodies to antigens present on fetal NRBCs, a
 new type of nonimmune phage antibody library was generated in which
 multiple copies of antibody fragments are displayed on each phage.
 Antibody fragments specific for fetal NRBCs were isolated by extensive
 predepletion of the phage library on adult RBCs and white blood cells
 (WBCs) followed by positive selection and amplification on fetal liver
 erythroid cells. After two rounds of selection, 44% of the antibodies
 analyzed bound fetal NRBCs, with two-thirds of these showing no binding
 of WBCs. DNA fingerprint analysis revealed the presence of at least 16
 unique antibodies. Antibody specificity was confirmed by flow
 cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence of total fetal
 liver and adult RBCs and WBCs. Antibody profiling suggested the
 generation of antibodies to previously unknown fetal RBC antigens. We
 conclude that multivalent display of antibodies on phage leads to
 efficient selection of panels of specific antibodies to cell surface
 antigens. The antibodies generated to fetal RBC antigens may have
 clinical utility for isolating fetal NRBCs from maternal circulation
 for noninvasive prenatal genetic diagnosis. Some of the antibodies may
 also have possible therapeutic utility for erythroleukemia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Thioredoxin (Trx) is an intracellular redox protein with
 extracellular cytokine-like and chemokine-like activities. We show here
 that, although plasma Trx levels are unrelated to survival of
 HIV-infected individuals with CD4 cell counts above 200/μl
 blood, survival is significantly impaired (P =
 0.003) when plasma Trx is chronically elevated in HIV-infected subjects
 with CD4 T cell counts below this level (i.e., with Centers for Disease
 Control (CDC)-defined AIDS). Relevant to the mechanism potentially
 underlying this finding, we also present data from experimental studies
 in mice showing that elevated plasma Trx efficiently blocks
 lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chemotaxis, an innate immune mechanism
 that is particularly crucial when adaptive immunity is compromised.
 Thus, we propose that elevated plasma Trx in HIV-infected individuals
 with low CD4 T cell counts directly impairs survival by blocking
 pathogen-induced chemotaxis, effectively eliminating the last (innate)
 barrier against establishment of opportunistic and other infections in
 these immunodeficient individuals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The key requirements for high-throughput single-nucleotide
 polymorphism (SNP) typing of DNA samples in large-scale disease
 case-control studies are automatability, simplicity, and robustness,
 coupled with minimal cost. In this paper we describe a fluorescence
 technique for the detection of SNPs that have been amplified by using
 the amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS)-PCR procedure. Its
 performance was evaluated using 32 sequence-specific primer mixes to
 assign the HLA-DRB alleles to 80 lymphoblastoid cell line DNAs chosen
 from our database for their diversity. All had been typed previously by
 alternative methods, either direct sequencing or gel electrophoresis.
 We believe the detection system that we call AMDI (alkaline-mediated
 differential interaction) satisfies the above criteria and is suitable
 for general high-throughput SNP typing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Losses of heterozygosity are the most common molecular genetic
 alteration observed in human cancers. However, there have been few
 systematic studies to understand the mechanism(s) responsible for
 losses of heterozygosity in such tumors. Here we report a detailed
 investigation of the five chromosomes lost most frequently in human
 colorectal cancers. A total of 10,216 determinations were made with 88
 microsatellite markers, revealing 245 chromosomal loss events. The
 mechanisms of loss were remarkably chromosome-specific. Some
 chromosomes displayed complete loss such as that predicted to result
 from mitotic nondisjunction. However, more than half of the losses were
 associated with losses of only part of a chromosome rather than a whole
 chromosome. Surprisingly, these losses were due largely to structural
 alterations rather than to mitotic recombination, break-induced
 replication, or gene conversion, suggesting novel mechanisms for the
 generation of much of the aneuploidy in this common tumor type.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Guanylyl cyclase-A (NPR-A; GC-A) is the major and possibly the only
 receptor for atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) or B-type natriuretic
 peptide. Although mice deficient in GC-A display an elevated blood
 pressure, the resultant cardiac hypertrophy is much greater than in
 other mouse models of hypertension. Here we overproduce GC-A in the
 cardiac myocytes of wild-type or GC-A null animals. Introduction of the
 GC-A transgene did not alter blood pressure or heart rate as a function
 of genotype. Cardiac myocyte size was larger (approximately 20%) in
 GC-A null than in wild-type animals. However, introduction of the GC-A
 transgene reduced cardiac myocyte size in both wild-type and null mice.
 Coincident with the reduction in myocyte size, both ANP mRNA and ANP
 content were significantly reduced by overexpression of GC-A, and this
 reduction was independent of genotype. This genetic model, therefore,
 separates a regulation of cardiac myocyte size by blood pressure from
 local regulation by a GC-mediated pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common disorder of iron
 metabolism caused by mutation in HFE, a gene encoding an
 MHC class I-like protein. Clinical studies demonstrate that the
 severity of iron loading is highly variable among individuals with
 identical HFE genotypes. To determine whether genetic
 factors other than Hfe genotype influence the severity
 of iron loading in the murine model of HH, we bred the disrupted murine
 Hfe allele onto three different genetically defined
 mouse strains (AKR, C57BL/6, and C3H), which differ in basal iron
 status and sensitivity to dietary iron loading. Serum transferrin
 saturations (percent saturation of serum transferrin with iron),
 hepatic and splenic iron concentrations, and hepatocellular iron
 distribution patterns were compared for wild-type (Hfe
 +/+), heterozygote (Hfe +/−), and knockout
 (Hfe −/−) mice from each strain. Although the
 Hfe −/− mice from all three strains demonstrated
 increased transferrin saturations and liver iron concentrations
 compared with Hfe +/+ mice, strain differences in
 severity of iron accumulation were striking. Targeted disruption of the
 Hfe gene led to hepatic iron levels in
 Hfe −/− AKR mice that were 2.5 or 3.6 times higher
 than those of Hfe −/− C3H or Hfe
 −/− C57BL/6 mice, respectively. The Hfe −/−
 mice also demonstrated strain-dependent differences in transferrin
 saturation, with the highest values in AKR mice and the lowest values
 in C3H mice. These observations demonstrate that heritable factors
 markedly influence iron homeostasis in response to Hfe
 disruption. Analysis of mice from crosses between C57BL/6 and AKR
 mice should allow the mapping and subsequent identification of genes
 modifying the severity of iron loading in this murine model of HH.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aldosterone and vasopressin are responsible for the final
 adjustment of sodium and water reabsorption in the kidney. In principal
 cells of the kidney cortical collecting duct (CCD), the integral
 response to aldosterone and the long-term functional effects of
 vasopressin depend on transcription. In this study, we analyzed the
 transcriptome of a highly differentiated mouse clonal CCD principal
 cell line (mpkCCDcl4) and the changes in the transcriptome
 induced by aldosterone and vasopressin. Serial analysis of gene
 expression (SAGE) was performed on untreated cells and on cells treated
 with either aldosterone or vasopressin for 4 h. The transcriptomes
 in these three experimental conditions were determined by sequencing
 169,721 transcript tags from the corresponding SAGE libraries. Limiting
 the analysis to tags that occurred twice or more in the data set,
 14,654 different transcripts were identified, 3,642 of which do not
 match known mouse sequences. Statistical comparison (at
 P < 0.05 level) of the three SAGE libraries
 revealed 34 AITs (aldosterone-induced transcripts), 29 ARTs
 (aldosterone-repressed transcripts), 48 VITs (vasopressin-induced
 transcripts) and 11 VRTs (vasopressin-repressed transcripts). A
 selection of the differentially-expressed, hormone-specific transcripts
 (5 VITs, 2 AITs and 1 ART) has been validated in the
 mpkCCDcl4 cell line either by Northern blot hybridization
 or reverse transcription–PCR. The hepatocyte nuclear
 transcription factor HNF-3-α (VIT39), the receptor activity modifying
 protein RAMP3 (VIT48), and the glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper
 protein (GILZ) (AIT28) are candidate proteins playing a role in
 physiological responses of this cell line to vasopressin and
 aldosterone.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The presence of magnetite crystal chains, considered missing
 evidence for the biological origin of magnetite in ALH84001
 [Thomas-Keprta, K. L., Bazylinski, D. A., Kirschvink,
 J. L., Clemett, S. J., McKay, D. S., Wentworth, S.
 J., Vali, H., Gibson, E. K., Jr., & Romanek, C. S. (2000)
 Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 64, 4049–4081], is
 demonstrated by high-power stereo backscattered scanning electron
 microscopy. Five characteristics of such chains (uniform crystal size
 and shape within chains, gaps between crystals, orientation of
 elongated crystals along the chain axis, flexibility of chains, and a
 halo that is a possible remnant of a membrane around chains), observed
 or inferred to be present in magnetotactic bacteria but incompatible
 with a nonbiological origin, are shown to be present. Although it is
 unlikely that magnetotactic bacteria were ever alive in ALH84001,
 decomposed remains of such organisms could have been deposited in
 cracks in the rock while it was still on the surface on Mars.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Viruses with RNA genomes often capture and redirect host cell
 components to assist in mechanisms particular to RNA-dependent RNA
 synthesis. The nidoviruses are an order of positive-stranded RNA
 viruses, comprising coronaviruses and arteriviruses, that employ a
 unique strategy of discontinuous transcription, producing a series of
 subgenomic mRNAs linking a 5′ leader to distal portions of the genome.
 For the prototype coronavirus mouse hepatitis virus (MHV),
 heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A1 has been shown to be
 able to bind in vitro to the negative strand of the
 intergenic sequence, a cis-acting element found in the leader RNA and
 preceding each downstream ORF in the genome. hnRNP A1 thus has been
 proposed as a host factor in MHV transcription. To test this hypothesis
 genetically, we initially constructed MHV mutants with a very
 high-affinity hnRNP A1 binding site inserted in place of, or adjacent
 to, an intergenic sequence in the MHV genome. This inserted hnRNP A1
 binding site was not able to functionally replace, or enhance
 transcription from, the intergenic sequence. This finding led us to
 test more directly the role of hnRNP A1 by analysis of MHV replication
 and RNA synthesis in a murine cell line that does not express this
 protein. The cellular absence of hnRNP A1 had no detectable effect on
 the production of infectious virus, the synthesis of genomic RNA, or
 the quantity or quality of subgenomic mRNAs. These results strongly
 suggest that hnRNP A1 is not a required host factor for MHV
 discontinuous transcription or genome replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Apicomplexan parasites such as Toxoplasma gondii
 contain a primitive plastid, the apicoplast, whose genome consists of a
 35-kb circular DNA related to the plastid DNA of plants. Plants
 synthesize fatty acids in their plastids. The first committed step in
 fatty acid synthesis is catalyzed by acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC). This
 enzyme is encoded in the nucleus, synthesized in the cytosol, and
 transported into the plastid. In the present work, two genes encoding
 ACC from T. gondii were cloned and the gene structure
 was determined. Both ORFs encode multidomain proteins, each with an
 N-terminal extension, compared with the cytosolic ACCs from plants. The
 N-terminal extension of one isozyme, ACC1, was shown to target green
 fluorescent protein to the apicoplast of T. gondii. In
 addition, the apicoplast contains a biotinylated protein,
 consistent with the assertion that ACC1 is localized there. The second
 ACC in T. gondii appears to be cytosolic. T.
 gondii mitochondria also contain a biotinylated
 protein, probably pyruvate carboxylase. These results confirm the
 essential nature of the apicoplast and explain the inhibition of
 parasite growth in cultured cells by herbicides targeting ACC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Heterocyst differentiation in the filamentous cyanobacterium
 Anabaena PCC 7120 requires a functional
 hetR gene. Increased expression of the
 hetR gene is seen in developing and mature heterocysts
 in response to fixed nitrogen limitation. We mapped four likely
 transcriptional start sites for hetR and identified a
 specific transcript that is positively autoregulated. By using the
 copper-responsive petE promoter from
 Anabaena PCC 7120 to drive hetR
 expression, we show that ectopic expression of hetR
 increases heterocyst frequency and induces heterocyst differentiation
 under fully repressing conditions. Coexpression of a reporter gene
 shows that expression from the petE promoter is smoothly
 induced depending on the amount of copper supplied. In the heterocyst
 pattern mutant PatA, where terminally positioned heterocysts are formed
 almost exclusively, expression of the
 petE∷hetR fusion does not result in
 the formation of intercalary heterocysts. These results suggest that
 although the intracellular concentration of HetR has to be elevated for
 the differentiation decision, PatA plays a role as well. This role may
 be in the form of posttranslational modification of HetR, because PatA
 is a member of the response regulator family of proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Programmed cell death (PCD) in mammals has been implicated in
 several disease states including cancer, autoimmune disease, and
 neurodegenerative disease. In Caenorhabditis
 elegans, PCD is a normal component of development. We find that
 Salmonella typhimurium colonization of the C.
 elegans intestine leads to an increased level of cell death in
 the worm gonad. S. typhimurium-mediated germ-line cell
 death is not observed in C. elegans ced-3 and
 ced-4 mutants in which developmentally regulated cell
 death is blocked, and ced-3 and ced-4
 mutants are hypersensitive to S. typhimurium-mediated
 killing. These results suggest that PCD may be involved in the
 C. elegans defense response to pathogen attack.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Helicobacter pylori is a Gram-negative
 bacterial pathogen with a small genome of 1.64–1.67 Mb. More than 20
 putative DNA restriction-modification (R-M) systems, comprising more
 than 4% of the total genome, have been identified in the two
 completely sequenced H. pylori strains, 26695 and J99,
 based on sequence similarities. In this study, we have investigated the
 biochemical activities of 14 Type II R-M systems in H.
 pylori 26695. Less than 30% of the Type II R-M systems in
 26695 are fully functional, similar to the results obtained from strain
 J99. Although nearly 90% of the R-M genes are shared by the two
 H. pylori strains, different sets of these R-M genes are
 functionally active in each strain. Interestingly, all strain-specific
 R-M genes are active, whereas most shared genes are inactive. This
 agrees with the notion that strain-specific genes have been acquired
 more recently through horizontal transfer from other bacteria and
 selected for function. Thus, they are less likely to be impaired by
 random mutations. Our results also show that H. pylori
 has extremely diversified R-M systems in different strains, and that
 the diversity may be maintained by constantly acquiring new R-M systems
 and by inactivating and deleting the old ones.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The influenza A virus pandemic of 1918–1919 resulted in an
 estimated 20–40 million deaths worldwide. The hemagglutinin and
 neuraminidase sequences of the 1918 virus were previously determined.
 We here report the sequence of the A/Brevig Mission/1/18 (H1N1)
 virus nonstructural (NS) segment encoding two proteins, NS1 and nuclear
 export protein. Phylogenetically, these genes appear to be close to the
 common ancestor of subsequent human and classical swine strain NS
 genes. Recently, the influenza A virus NS1 protein was shown to be a
 type I IFN antagonist that plays an important role in viral
 pathogenesis. By using the recently developed technique of generating
 influenza A viruses entirely from cloned cDNAs, the hypothesis that the
 1918 virus NS1 gene played a role in virulence was tested in a mouse
 model. In a BSL3+ laboratory, viruses were generated that possessed
 either the 1918 NS1 gene alone or the entire 1918 NS segment in a
 background of influenza A/WSN/33 (H1N1), a mouse-adapted virus
 derived from a human influenza strain first isolated in 1933. These
 1918 NS viruses replicated well in tissue culture but were attenuated
 in mice as compared with the isogenic control viruses. This attenuation
 in mice may be related to the human origin of the 1918 NS1 gene. These
 results suggest that interaction of the NS1 protein with host-cell
 factors plays a significant role in viral pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The opportunistic pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas
 aeruginosa uses quorum-sensing signaling systems as global
 regulators of virulence genes. There are two quorum-sensing signal
 receptor and signal generator pairs, LasR–LasI and RhlR–RhlI. The
 recently completed P. aeruginosa genome-sequencing
 project revealed a gene coding for a homolog of the signal receptors,
 LasR and RhlR. Here we describe a role for this gene, which we call
 qscR. The qscR gene product governs the
 timing of quorum-sensing-controlled gene expression and it dampens
 virulence in an insect model. We present evidence that suggests the
 primary role of QscR is repression of lasI. A
 qscR mutant produces the LasI-generated signal
 prematurely, and this results in premature transcription of a number of
 quorum-sensing-regulated genes. When fed to Drosophila
 melanogaster, the qscR mutant kills the animals
 more rapidly than the parental P. aeruginosa. The
 repression of lasI by QscR could serve to ensure that
 quorum-sensing-controlled genes are not activated in environments where
 they are not useful.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A variety of molecular genetic approaches were used to study the
 effect of rabies virus (RV) infection on host gene expression in mouse
 brain. The down-regulation of gene expression was found to be a major
 effect of RV infection by using subtraction hybridization. However, a
 combination of techniques identified approximately 39 genes activated
 by infection. These included genes involved in regulation of cell
 metabolism, protein synthesis, synaptic activity, and cell growth and
 differentiation. Northern blot analysis to monitor temporal activation
 of several of these genes following infection revealed essentially two
 patterns of activation: (i) an early response with
 up-regulation beginning within 3 days after infection and correlating
 with transcription of RV nuclear protein; and (ii) a
 late response with enhanced expression occurring at days 6–7 after
 infection and associated with peak RV replication. The gene activation
 patterns and the known functions of their products suggest that a
 number of host genes may be involved in the replication and spread of
 RV in the brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) 5 is a unique member of the Cdk
 family, because Cdk5 kinase activity is detected only in the nervous
 tissue. Two neuron-specific activating subunits of Cdk5, p35 and p39,
 have been identified. Overlapping expression pattern of these isoforms
 in the embryonic mouse brain and the significant residual Cdk5 kinase
 activity in brain homogenate of the p35−/− mice indicate the
 redundant functions of the Cdk5 activators in vivo.
 Severe neuronal migration defects in p35−/−Cdk5 +/− mice further
 support the idea that the redundant expression of the Cdk5 activators
 may cause a milder phenotype in p35−/− mice compared with
 Cdk5−/− mice. Mutant mice lacking either Cdk5 or p35 exhibit
 certain similarities with Reelin/Dab1-mutant mice in the
 disorganization of cortical laminar structure in the brain. To
 elucidate the relationship between Cdk5/p35 and Reelin/Dab1
 signaling, we generated mouse lines that have combined defects of these
 genes. The addition of heterozygosity of either Dab1 or Reelin mutation
 to p35−/− causes the extensive migration defects of cortical
 neurons in the cerebellum. In the double-null mice of p35 and either
 Dab1 or Reelin, additional migration defects occur in the Purkinje
 cells in the cerebellum and in the pyramidal neurons in the
 hippocampus. These additional defects in neuronal migration in mice
 lacking both Cdk5/p35 and Reelin/Dab1 indicate that Cdk5/p35 may
 contribute synergistically to the positioning of the cortical neurons
 in the developing mouse brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In neurons, translation of dendritically localized mRNAs is thought
 to play a role in affecting synaptic efficacy. Inasmuch as components
 of the translation machinery may be limiting in dendrites, we
 investigated the mechanisms by which translation of five dendritically
 localized mRNAs is initiated. The 5′ leader sequences of mRNAs encoding
 the activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein, the α subunit of
 calcium–calmodulin-dependent kinase II, dendrin, the
 microtubule-associated protein 2, and neurogranin (RC3) were evaluated
 for their ability to affect translation in the 5′ untranslated region
 of a monocistronic reporter mRNA. In both neural and nonneural cell
 lines, the activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein,
 microtubule-associated protein 2, and α-CaM Kinase II leader
 sequences enhanced translation, whereas the dendrin and RC3 5′
 untranslated regions slightly inhibited translation as compared with
 controls. When cap-dependent translation of these constructs was
 suppressed by overexpression of a protein that binds the cap-binding
 protein eIF4E, it was revealed that translation of these mRNAs had both
 cap-dependent and cap-independent components. The cap-independent
 component was further analyzed by inserting the 5′ leader sequences
 into the intercistronic region of dicistronic mRNAs. All five leader
 sequences mediated internal initiation via internal ribosome entry
 sites (IRESes). The RC3 IRES was most active and was further
 characterized after transfection in primary neurons. Although
 translation mediated by this IRES occurred throughout the cell, it was
 relatively more efficient in dendrites. These data suggest that IRESes
 may increase translation efficiency at postsynaptic sites after
 synaptic activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Proper understanding of processes underlying visual perception
 requires information on the activation order of distinct brain areas.
 We measured dynamics of cortical signals with magnetoencephalography
 while human subjects viewed stimuli at four visual quadrants. The
 signals were analyzed with minimum current estimates at the individual
 and group level. Activation emerged 55–70 ms after stimulus onset both
 in the primary posterior visual areas and in the anteromedial part of
 the cuneus. Other cortical areas were active after this initial dual
 activation. Comparison of data between species suggests that the
 anteromedial cuneus either comprises a homologue of the monkey area V6
 or is an area unique to humans. Our results show that visual stimuli
 activate two cortical areas right from the beginning of the cortical
 response. The anteromedial cuneus has the temporal position needed to
 interact with the primary visual cortex V1 and thereby to modify
 information transferred via V1 to extrastriate cortices.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A study was made of glycine (Gly) and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes injected with rat
 mRNAs isolated from the encephalon, midbrain, and brainstem of
 18-day-old rat embryos. In oocytes injected with encephalon, midbrain,
 or brainstem mRNAs, the Gly-current amplitudes (membrane current
 elicited by Gly; 1 mM Gly) were respectively 115 ± 35, 346
 ± 28, and 389 ± 22 nA, whereas the GABA-currents (1 mM GABA)
 were all ≤40 nA. Moreover, the Gly-currents desensitized faster in
 oocytes injected with encephalon or brainstem mRNAs. The
 EC50 for Gly was 611 ± 77 μM for encephalon,
 661 ± 28 μM for midbrain, and 506 ± 18 μM for brainstem
 mRNA-injected oocytes, and the corresponding Hill coefficients were all
 ≈2. Strychnine inhibited all of the Gly-currents, with an
 IC50 of 56 ± 3 nM for encephalon, 97 ± 4 nM for
 midbrain, and 72 ± 4 nM for brainstem mRNAs. During repetitive
 Gly applications, the Gly-currents were potentiated by 1.6-fold for
 encephalon, 2.1-fold for midbrain, and 1.3-fold for brainstem
 RNA-injected oocytes. Raising the extracellular Ca2+
 concentration significantly increased the Gly-currents in oocytes
 injected with midbrain and brainstem mRNAs. Reverse transcription–PCR
 studies showed differences in the Gly receptor (GlyR) α-subunits
 expressed, whereas the β-subunit was present in all three types of
 mRNA. These results indicate differential expression of GlyR mRNAs in
 the brain areas examined, and these mRNAs lead to the expression of
 GlyRs that have different properties. The modulation of GlyRs by
 Ca2+ could play important functions during brain
 development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Knock-in mice were generated that harbored a leucine-to-serine
 mutation in the α4 nicotinic receptor near the gate in the channel
 pore. Mice with intact expression of this hypersensitive receptor
 display dominant neonatal lethality. These mice have a severe deficit
 of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, possibly because the
 hypersensitive receptors are continuously activated by normal
 extracellular choline concentrations. A strain that retains the neo
 selection cassette in an intron has reduced expression of the
 hypersensitive receptor and is viable and fertile. The viable mice
 display increased anxiety, poor motor learning, excessive ambulation
 that is eliminated by very low levels of nicotine, and a reduction of
 nigrostriatal dopaminergic function upon aging. These knock-in mice
 provide useful insights into the pathophysiology of sustained nicotinic
 receptor activation and may provide a model for Parkinson's disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estrogen receptor β (ERβ) is expressed at high levels in both
 neurons and glial cells of the central nervous system. The development
 of ERβ knockout (BERKO) mice has provided a model to study the
 function of this nuclear receptor in the brain. We have found that the
 brains of BERKO mice show several morphological abnormalities. There is
 a regional neuronal hypocellularity in the brain, with a severe
 neuronal deficit in the somatosensory cortex, especially layers II,
 III, IV, and V, and a remarkable proliferation of astroglial cells in
 the limbic system but not in the cortex. These abnormalities are
 evident as early as 2 mo of age in BERKO mice. As BERKO mice age, the
 neuronal deficit becomes more pronounced, and, by 2 yr of age, there is
 degeneration of neuronal cell bodies throughout the brain. This is
 particularly evident in the substantia nigra. We conclude that ERβ is
 necessary for neuronal survival and speculate that this gene could have
 an important influence on the development of degenerative diseases of
 the central nervous system, such as Alzheimer's disease and
 Parkinson's disease, as well as those resulting from trauma and stroke
 in the brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We model experience-dependent plasticity in the cortical
 representation of whiskers (the barrel cortex) in normal adult rats,
 and in adult rats that were prenatally exposed to alcohol. Prenatal
 exposure to alcohol (PAE) caused marked deficits in
 experience-dependent plasticity in a cortical barrel-column. Cortical
 plasticity was induced by trimming all whiskers on one side of the face
 except two. This manipulation produces high activity from the intact
 whiskers that contrasts with low activity from the cut whiskers while
 avoiding any nerve damage. By a computational model, we show that the
 evolution of neuronal responses in a single barrel-column after this
 sensory bias is consistent with the synaptic modifications that follow
 the rules of the Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) theory. The BCM
 theory postulates that a neuron possesses a moving synaptic
 modification threshold, θM, that dictates whether the
 neuron's activity at any given instant will lead to strengthening or
 weakening of its input synapses. The current value of θM
 changes proportionally to the square of the neuron's activity averaged
 over some recent past. In the model of alcohol impaired cortex, the
 effective θM has been set to a level unattainable by the
 depressed levels of cortical activity leading to “impaired”
 synaptic plasticity that is consistent with experimental findings.
 Based on experimental and computational results, we discuss how
 elevated θM may be related to (i) reduced
 levels of neurotransmitters modulating plasticity, (ii)
 abnormally low expression of
 N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), and
 (iii) the membrane translocation of
 Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II
 (CaMKII) in adult rat cortex subjected to prenatal alcohol exposure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The spinal serotoninergic projection from the raphe magnus has been
 shown to modulate nociceptive inputs, and activation of this projection
 mediates nicotine-elicited analgesia. Here, we investigate the
 interactions between cholinergic and serotoninergic systems in the
 spinal cord, by conducting serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)]
 efflux experiments on mouse spinal slices. At least three spinal
 populations of nicotinic receptors are distinguished that affect 5-HT
 release. The first could be directly located on serotoninergic
 terminals, is insensitive to nanomolar concentrations of
 methyllicaconitine (MLA), and may be subjected to a basal (not maximal)
 cholinergic tone. The second is tonically and maximally activated by
 endogenous acetylcholine, insensitive to nanomolar
 concentrations of MLA, and present on inhibitory neurons. The last is
 also present on inhibitory neurons but is sensitive to nanomolar
 concentrations of MLA and not tonically activated by acetylcholine.
 Multiple nicotinic acetylcholine receptor populations thus
 differentially exert tonic or not tonic control on 5-HT transmission in
 the spinal cord. These receptors may be major targets for nicotine
 effects on antinociception. In addition, the presence of a tonic
 nicotinic modulation of 5-HT release indicates that
 endogenous acetylcholine plays a role in the physiological
 regulation of descending 5-HT pathways to the spinal cord.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), a key regulator
 of gene expression, is activated by phosphorylation on Ser-133. Several
 different protein kinases possess the capability of driving this
 phosphorylation, making it a point of potential convergence for
 multiple intracellular signaling cascades. Previous work in neurons has
 indicated that physiologic synaptic stimulation recruits a fast
 calmodulin kinase IV (CaMKIV)-dependent pathway that
 dominates early signaling to CREB. Here we show in hippocampal neurons
 that the fast, CaMK-dependent pathway can be followed by a slower
 pathway that depends on Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK),
 along with CaMK. This pathway was blocked by dominant-negative Ras and
 was specifically recruited by depolarizations that produced strong
 intracellular Ca2+ transients. When both pathways were
 recruited, phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) formation was overwhelmingly
 dominated by the CaMK pathway between 0 and 10 min, and by the MAPK
 pathway at 60 min, whereas the two pathways acted in concert at 30 min.
 The Ca2+ signals that produced only rapid CaMK signaling to
 pCREB or both rapid CaMK and slow MAPK signaling deviated significantly
 for only ≈1 min, yet their differential impact on pCREB extended over
 a much longer period, between 20 and 60 min and beyond, which is of
 likely significance for gene expression. The CaMK-dependent MAPK
 pathway may inform the nucleus about stimulus amplitude. In contrast,
 the CaMKIV pathway may be well suited to conveying information on the
 precise timing of localized synaptic stimuli, befitting its greater
 speed and sensitivity, whereas the previously described calcineurin
 pathway may carry information about stimulus duration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Programmed cell death (PCD) during neuronal development and disease
 has been shown to require de novo RNA synthesis.
 However, the time course and regulation of target genes is poorly
 understood. By using a brain-biased array of over 7,500 cDNAs, we
 profiled this gene expression component of PCD in cerebellar granule
 neurons challenged separately by potassium withdrawal, combined
 potassium and serum withdrawal, and kainic acid administration. We
 found that hundreds of genes were significantly regulated in discreet
 waves including known genes whose protein products are involved in PCD.
 A restricted set of genes was regulated by all models, providing
 evidence that signals inducing PCD can regulate large assemblages of
 genes (of which a restricted subset may be shared in multiple
 pathways).
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe the localization of the recently identified glucose
 transporter GLUTx1 and the regulation of GLUTx1 in the hippocampus of
 diabetic and control rats. GLUTx1 mRNA and protein exhibit a unique
 distribution when compared with other glucose transporter isoforms
 expressed in the rat hippocampus. In particular, GLUTx1 mRNA was
 detected in hippocampal pyramidal neurons and granule neurons of the
 dentate gyrus as well as in nonprincipal neurons. With
 immunohistochemistry, GLUTx1 protein expression is limited to neuronal
 cell bodies and the most proximal dendrites, unlike GLUT3 expression
 that is observed throughout the neuropil. Immunoblot analysis of
 hippocampal membrane fractions revealed that GLUTx1 protein expression
 is primarily localized to the intracellular compartment and exhibits
 limited association with the plasma membrane. In streptozotocin
 diabetic rats compared with vehicle-treated controls, quantitative
 autoradiography showed increased GLUTx1 mRNA levels in pyramidal
 neurons and granule neurons; up-regulation of GLUTx1 mRNA also was
 found in nonprincipal cells, as shown by single-cell emulsion
 autoradiography. In contrast, diabetic and control rats expressed
 similar levels of hippocampal GLUTx1 protein. These results indicate
 that GLUTx1 mRNA and protein have a unique expression pattern in rat
 hippocampus and suggest that streptozotocin diabetes increases
 steady-state mRNA levels in the absence of concomitant increases in
 GLUTx1 protein expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vertebrate sensory hair cells achieve high sensitivity and
 frequency selectivity by adding self-generated mechanical energy to
 low-level signals. This allows them to detect signals that are smaller
 than thermal molecular motion and to achieve significant resonance
 amplitudes and frequency selectivity despite the viscosity of the
 surrounding fluid. In nonmammals, a great deal of in
 vitro evidence indicates that the active process responsible
 for this amplification is intimately associated with the hair cells'
 transduction channels in the stereovillar bundle. Here, we provide
 in vivo evidence of hair-cell bundle involvement in
 active processes. Electrical stimulation of the inner ear of a lizard
 at frequencies typical for this hearing organ induced low-level
 otoacoustic emissions that could be modulated by low-frequency sound.
 The unique modulation pattern permitted the tracing of the active
 process involved to the stereovillar bundles of the sensory hair cells.
 This supports the notion that, in nonmammals, the cochlear amplifier in
 the hair cells is driven by a bundle motor system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The development of functional Ca2+-activated
 K+ channels (KCa) in chick ciliary ganglion
 (CG) neurons requires interactions with afferent preganglionic nerve
 terminals. Here we show that the essential preganglionic
 differentiation factor is an isoform of β-neuregulin-1.
 β-Neuregulin-1 transcripts are expressed in the midbrain
 preganglionic Edinger–Westphal nucleus at developmental stages that
 coincide with or precede the normal onset of macroscopic
 KCa in CG neurons. Injection of β-neuregulin-1 peptide
 into the brains of developing embryos evoked a robust stimulation of
 functional KCa channels at stages before the normal
 appearance of these channels in CG neurons developing in
 vivo. Conversely, injection of a neutralizing antiserum
 specific for β-neuregulin-1 inhibited the development of
 KCa channels in CG neurons. Low concentrations of
 β-neuregulin-1 evoked a robust increase in whole-cell KCa
 in CG neurons cocultured with iris target tissues. By contrast,
 culturing CG neurons with iris cells or low concentrations of
 β-neuregulin-1 by themselves was insufficient to stimulate
 KCa. These data suggest that the preganglionic factor
 required for the development of KCa in ciliary ganglion
 neurons is an isoform of β-neuregulin-1, and that this factor acts in
 concert with target-derived trophic molecules to regulate the
 differentiation of excitability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) damages
 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) as
 seen in Parkinson's disease. Here, we show that the pro-apoptotic
 protein Bax is highly expressed in the SNpc and that its ablation
 attenuates SNpc developmental neuronal apoptosis. In adult
 mice, there is an up-regulation of Bax in the SNpc after MPTP
 administration and a decrease in Bcl-2. These changes parallel
 MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration. We also show that mutant
 mice lacking Bax are significantly more resistant to MPTP than their
 wild-type littermates. This study demonstrates that Bax plays a
 critical role in the MPTP neurotoxic process and suggests that
 targeting Bax may provide protective benefit in the treatment of
 Parkinson's disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Here we describe the cloning and initial characterization of a
 previously unidentified CRF-related neuropeptide, urocortin II (Ucn
 II). Searches of the public human genome database identified a region
 with significant sequence homology to the CRF neuropeptide family. By
 using homologous primers deduced from the human sequence, a mouse cDNA
 was isolated from whole brain poly(A)+ RNA that encodes a
 predicted 38-aa peptide, structurally related to the other known
 mammalian family members, CRF and Ucn. Ucn II binds selectively to the
 type 2 CRF receptor (CRF-R2), with no appreciable activity on CRF-R1.
 Transcripts encoding Ucn II are expressed in discrete regions of the
 rodent central nervous system, including stress-related cell groups in
 the hypothalamus (paraventricular and arcuate nuclei) and brainstem
 (locus coeruleus). Central administration of 1–10 μg of peptide
 elicits activational responses (Fos induction) preferentially within a
 core circuitry subserving autonomic and neuroendocrine regulation, but
 whose overall pattern does not broadly mimic the CRF-R2 distribution.
 Behaviorally, central Ucn II attenuates nighttime feeding, with a time
 course distinct from that seen in response to CRF. In contrast to CRF,
 however, central Ucn II failed to increase gross motor activity. These
 findings identify Ucn II as a new member of the CRF family of
 neuropeptides, which is expressed centrally and binds selectively to
 CRF-R2. Initial functional studies are consistent with Ucn II
 involvement in central autonomic and appetitive control, but not in
 generalized behavioral activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Allopregnanolone (ALLO), is a brain endogenous
 neurosteroid that binds with high affinity to γ-aminobutyric acid
 type A (GABAA) receptors and positively modulates the
 action of GABA at these receptors. Unlike ALLO,
 5α-dihydroprogesterone (5α-DHP) binds with high affinity to
 intracellular progesterone receptors that regulate DNA transcription.
 To investigate the physiological roles of ALLO and 5α-DHP synthesized
 in brain, we have adopted a mouse model involving protracted social
 isolation. In the frontal cortex of mice, socially isolated for 6
 weeks, both neurosteroids were decreased by approximately 50%. After
 administration of (17β)-17-(bis-1-methyl amino carbonyl)
 androstane-3,5-diene-3-carboxylic acid (SKF105,111), an inhibitor of
 the enzyme (5α-reductase Type I and II) that converts progesterone
 into 5α-DHP, the ALLO and 5α-DHP content of frontal cortex of both
 group-housed and socially isolated mice decreased exponentially to
 10%–20% of control values in about 30 min. The fractional rate
 constants (k h−1) of ALLO and 5α-DHP
 decline multiplied by the ALLO and 5α-DHP concentrations at any given
 steady-state estimate the rate of synthesis required to maintain that
 steady state. After 6 weeks of social isolation, ALLO and 5α-DHP
 biosynthesis rates were decreased to 30% of the values calculated in
 group-housed mice. Moreover, in socially isolated mice, the expression
 of 5α-reductase Type I mRNA and protein was approximately 50% lower
 than in group-housed mice whereas 3α-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase
 mRNA expression was equal in the two groups. Protracted social
 isolation in mice may provide a model to investigate whether 5α-DHP
 by a genomic action, and ALLO by a nongenomic mechanism down-regulate
 the action of drugs acting as agonists, partial agonists, or positive
 allosteric modulators of the benzodiazepine recognition sites
 expressed by GABAA receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In myocardial ischemia, adrenergic nerves release excessive amounts
 of norepinephrine (NE), causing dysfunction and arrhythmias. With
 anoxia and the concomitant ATP depletion, vesicular storage of NE is
 impaired, resulting in accumulation of free NE in the axoplasm of
 sympathetic nerves. Intraneuronal acidosis activates the
 Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE), leading to increased
 Na+ entry in the nerve terminals. These conditions favor
 availability of the NE transporter to the axoplasmic side of the
 membrane, causing massive carrier-mediated efflux of free NE. Neuronal
 NHE activation is pivotal in this process; NHE inhibitors attenuate
 carrier-mediated NE release. We previously reported that activation of
 histamine H3 receptors (H3R) on cardiac
 sympathetic nerves also reduces carrier-mediated NE release and
 alleviates arrhythmias. Thus, H3R activation may be
 negatively coupled to NHE. We tested this hypothesis in individual
 human SKNMC neuroblastoma cells stably transfected with H3R
 cDNA, loaded with the intracellular pH (pHi) indicator
 BCECF. These cells possess amiloride-sensitive NHE. NHE activity was
 measured as the rate of Na+-dependent pHi
 recovery in response to an acute acid pulse (NH4Cl). We
 found that the selective H3R-agonist imetit markedly
 diminished NHE activity, and so did the amiloride derivative EIPA. The
 selective H3R antagonist thioperamide abolished the
 imetit-induced NHE attenuation. Thus, our results provide a link
 between H3R and NHE, which may limit the excessive release
 of NE during protracted myocardial ischemia. Our previous and present
 findings uncover a novel mechanism of cardioprotection: NHE inhibition
 in cardiac adrenergic neurons as a means to prevent ischemic
 arrhythmias associated with carrier-mediated NE release.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Restenosis is due to neointimal hyperplasia, which occurs in the
 coronary artery after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty
 (PTCA). During restenosis, an impairment of nitric oxide (NO)-dependent
 pathways may occur. Concomitant hypercholesterolemia may exacerbate
 restenosis in patients undergoing PTCA. Here, we show that a
 NO-releasing aspirin derivative (NCX-4016) reduces the degree of
 restenosis after balloon angioplasty in low-density lipoprotein
 receptor-deficient mice and this effect is associated with reduced
 vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation and macrophage
 deposition at the site of injury. Drugs were administered following
 both therapeutic or preventive protocols. We demonstrate that NCX-4016
 is effective both in prevention and treatment of restenosis in the
 presence of hypercholesterolemia. These data indicate that impairment
 of NO-dependent mechanisms may be involved in the development of
 restenosis in hypercholesterolemic mice. Although experimental models
 of restenosis may not reflect restenosis in humans in all details, we
 suggest that a NO-releasing aspirin derivative could be an
 effective drug in reducing restenosis following PTCA, especially
 in the presence of hypercholesterolemia and/or gastrointestinal
 damage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ryanodine receptor (RyR) family of proteins constitutes a
 unique type of calcium channel that mediates Ca2+ release
 from endoplasmic reticulum/sarcoplasmic reticulum stores. Ryanodine
 has been widely used to identify contributions made by the RyR to
 signaling in both muscle and nonmuscle cells. Ryanodine, through
 binding to high- and low-affinity sites, has been suggested to block
 the channel pore based on its ability to induce partial conductance
 states and irreversible inhibition. We examined the effect of ryanodine
 on an RyR type 1 (RyR1) point mutant (E4032A) that exhibits a severely
 compromised phenotype. When expressed in 1B5 (RyR null/dyspedic)
 myotubes, E4032A is relatively unresponsive to stimulation by cell
 membrane depolarization or RyR agonists, although the full-length
 protein is correctly targeted to junctions and interacts with
 dihydropyridine receptors (DHPRs) inducing their arrangement into
 tetrads. However, treatment of E4032A-expressing cells with 200–500
 μM ryanodine, concentrations that rapidly activate and then inhibit
 wild-type (wt) RyR1, restores the responsiveness of E4032A-expressing
 myotubes to depolarization and RyR agonists. Moreover, the restored
 E4032A channels remain resistant to subsequent exposure to ryanodine.
 In single-channel studies, E4032A exhibits infrequent (channel-open
 probability, Po < 0.005) and brief (<250 μs) gating
 events and insensitivity to Ca2+. Addition of ryanodine
 restores Ca2+-dependent channel activity exhibiting full,
 3/4, 1/2, and 1/4 substates. This evidence suggests that, whereas
 ryanodine does not occlude the RyR pore, it does bind to sites that
 allosterically induce substantial conformational changes in the RyR. In
 the case of E4032A, these changes overcome unfavorable energy barriers
 introduced by the E4032A mutation to restore channel function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proinflammatory cytokine IL-18 was investigated for its role in
 human myocardial function. An ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) model of
 suprafused human atrial myocardium was used to assess myocardial
 contractile force. Addition of IL-18 binding protein (IL-18BP), the
 constitutive inhibitor of IL-18 activity, to the perifusate during and
 after I/R resulted in improved contractile function after I/R from
 35% of control to 76% with IL-18BP. IL-18BP treatment also preserved
 intracellular tissue creatine kinase levels (by 420%). Steady-state
 mRNA levels for IL-18 were elevated after I/R, and the concentration
 of IL-18 in myocardial homogenates was increased (control, 5.8 pg/mg
 vs. I/R, 26 pg/mg; P < 0.01). Active IL-18
 requires cleavage of its precursor form by the IL-1β-converting
 enzyme (caspase 1); inhibition of caspase 1 also attenuated the
 depression in contractile force after I/R (from 35% of control to
 75.8% in treated atrial muscle; P < 0.01).
 Because caspase 1 also cleaves the precursor IL-1β, IL-1 receptor
 blockade was accomplished by using the IL-1 receptor antagonist. IL-1
 receptor antagonist added to the perifusate also resulted in a
 reduction of ischemia-induced contractile dysfunction. These studies
 demonstrate that endogenous IL-18 and IL-1β play a
 significant role in I/R-induced human myocardial injury and that
 inhibition of caspase 1 reduces the processing of
 endogenous precursors of IL-18 and IL-1β and
 thereby prevents ischemia-induced myocardial dysfunction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Signaling between cell membrane-bound L-type Ca2+
 channels (LTCC) and ryanodine receptor Ca2+ release
 channels (RyR) on sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) stores grades
 excitation–contraction coupling (ECC) in striated muscle. A physical
 connection regulates LTCC and RyR in skeletal muscle, but the molecular
 mechanism for coordinating LTCC and RyR in cardiomyocytes, where this
 physical link is absent, is unknown. Calmodulin kinase
 (CaMK) has characteristics suitable for an ECC coordinating molecule:
 it is activated by Ca2+/calmodulin, it
 regulates LTCC and RyR, and it is enriched in the vicinity of LTCC and
 RyR. Intact cardiomyocytes were studied under conditions where CaMK
 activity could be controlled independently of intracellular
 Ca2+ by using an engineered Ca2+-independent
 form of CaMK and a highly specific CaMK inhibitory peptide. CaMK
 reciprocally enhanced L-type Ca2+ current and reduced
 release of Ca2+ from the SR while increasing SR
 Ca2+ content. These findings support the hypothesis that
 CaMK is required to functionally couple LTCC and RyR during cardiac
 ECC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ATP-sensitive potassium channel (KATP) regulates
 insulin secretion in pancreatic β cells. Loss of functional
 KATP channels because of mutations in either the SUR1 or
 Kir6.2 channel subunit causes persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia
 of infancy (PHHI). We investigated the molecular mechanism by which a
 single phenylalanine deletion in SUR1 (ΔF1388) causes PHHI. Previous
 studies have shown that coexpression of ΔF1388 SUR1 with Kir6.2
 results in no channel activity. We demonstrate here that the lack of
 functional expression is due to failure of the mutant channel to
 traffic to the cell surface. Trafficking of KATP channels
 requires that the endoplasmic reticulum-retention signal, RKR, present
 in both SUR1 and Kir6.2, be shielded during channel assembly. To ask
 whether ΔF1388 SUR1 forms functional channels with Kir6.2, we
 inactivated the RKR signal in ΔF1388 SUR1 by mutation to AAA
 (ΔF1388 SUR1AAA). Inactivation of similar endoplasmic
 reticulum-retention signals in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane
 conductance regulator has been shown to partially overcome the
 trafficking defect of a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
 regulator mutation, ΔF508. We found that coexpression of ΔF1388
 SUR1AAA with Kir6.2 led to partial surface expression of
 the mutant channel. Moreover, mutant channels were active. Compared
 with wild-type channels, the mutant channels have reduced ATP
 sensitivity and do not respond to stimulation by MgADP or diazoxide.
 The RKR → AAA mutation alone has no effect on channel properties. Our
 results establish defective trafficking of KATP channels as
 a molecular basis of PHHI and show that F1388 in SUR1 is critical for
 normal trafficking and function of KATP channels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A large family of membrane channel proteins selective for transport
 of water (aquaporins) or water plus glycerol (aquaglyceroporins) has
 been found in diverse life forms. Escherichia coli has
 two members of this family—a water channel, AqpZ, and a glycerol
 facilitator, GlpF. Despite having similar primary amino acid sequences
 and predicted structures, the oligomeric state and solute selectivity
 of AqpZ and GlpF are disputed. Here we report biochemical and
 functional characterizations of affinity-purified GlpF and compare
 it to AqpZ. Histidine-tagged (His-GlpF) and hemagglutinin-tagged
 (HA-GlpF) polypeptides encoded by a bicistronic construct were
 expressed in bacteria. HA-GlpF and His-GlpF appear to form oligomers
 during Ni-nitrilotriacetate affinity purification. Sucrose gradient
 sedimentation analyses showed that the oligomeric state of octyl
 glucoside-solubilized GlpF varies: low ionic strength favors subunit
 dissociation, whereas Mg2+ stabilizes tetrameric assembly.
 Reconstitution of affinity-purified GlpF into proteoliposomes increases
 glycerol permeability more than 100-fold and water permeability up to
 10-fold compared with control liposomes. Glycerol and water
 permeability of GlpF both occur with low Arrhenius activation energies
 and are reversibly inhibited by HgCl2. Our studies
 demonstrate that, unlike AqpZ, a water-selective stable tetramer,
 purified GlpF exists in multiple oligomeric forms under nondenaturing
 conditions and is highly permeable to glycerol but less well permeated
 by water.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) water channel protein expression is increased by
 hypertonic stress. The contribution of changes in protein stability to
 hypertonic induction of AQP1 have not been described. Incubation of
 BALB/c fibroblasts spontaneously expressing AQP1 with proteasome
 inhibitors increased AQP1 expression, suggesting basal
 proteasome-dependent degradation of the protein. Degradation by the
 proteasome is thought to be triggered by polyubiquitination of a target
 protein. To determine whether AQP1 is ubiquitinated,
 immunoprecipitation with anti-AQP1 antibodies was performed, and the
 resultant samples were probed by protein immunoblot for the presence of
 ubiquitin. Immunoblots demonstrated ubiquitination of AQP1 under
 control conditions that increased after treatment with proteasome
 inhibitors (MG132, lactacystin). Exposure of cells to hypertonic medium
 for as little as 4 h decreased ubiquitination of AQP1, an effect
 that persisted through 24 h in hypertonic medium. Using metabolic
 labeling with [35S]methionine, the half-life of AQP1
 protein under isotonic conditions was found to be <4 h. AQP1 protein
 half-life was markedly increased by exposure of cells to hypertonic
 medium. These observations provide evidence that aquaporins are a
 target for ubiquitination and proteasome-dependent degradation.
 Additionally, these studies demonstrate that reduced protein
 ubiquitination and increased protein stability lead to increased levels
 of AQP1 expression during hypertonic stress.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plant-specific N-glycosylation can represent an
 important limitation for the use of recombinant glycoproteins of
 mammalian origin produced by transgenic plants. Comparison of plant and
 mammalian N-glycan biosynthesis indicates that
 β1,4-galactosyltransferase is the most important enzyme that is
 missing for conversion of typical plant N-glycans into
 mammalian-like N-glycans. Here, the stable expression of
 human β1,4-galactosyltransferase in tobacco plants is described.
 Proteins isolated from transgenic tobacco plants expressing the
 mammalian enzyme bear N-glycans, of which about 15%
 exhibit terminal β1,4-galactose residues in addition to the specific
 plant N-glycan epitopes. The results indicate that the
 human enzyme is fully functional and localizes correctly in the Golgi
 apparatus. Despite the fact that through the modified glycosylation
 machinery numerous proteins have acquired unusual
 N-glycans with terminal β1,4-galactose residues, no
 obvious changes in the physiology of the transgenic plants are
 observed, and the feature is inheritable. The crossing of a tobacco
 plant expressing human β1,4-galactosyltransferase with a plant
 expressing the heavy and light chains of a mouse antibody results in
 the expression of a plantibody that exhibits partially galactosylated
 N-glycans (30%), which is approximately as abundant as
 when the same antibody is produced by hybridoma cells. These results
 are a major step in the in planta engineering of the
 N-glycosylation of recombinant antibodies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Carotenoids in the photosynthetic membranes of plants typically
 contain two β-rings (e.g., β-carotene and zeaxanthin) or one ɛ-
 and one β-ring (e.g., lutein). Carotenoids with two ɛ-rings are
 uncommon. We reported earlier that the Arabidopsis
 thaliana lycopene ɛ-cyclase (LCYe) adds one ɛ-ring to the
 symmetrical linear substrate lycopene, whereas the structurally related
 lycopene β-cyclase (LCYb) adds two β-rings. Here we describe a cDNA
 encoding LCYe in romaine lettuce (Lactuca sativa var.
 romaine), one of the few plant species known to accumulate substantial
 quantities of a carotenoid with two ɛ-rings: lactucaxanthin. The
 product of the lettuce cDNA, similar in sequence to the
 Arabidopsis LCYe (77% amino acid identity), efficiently
 converted lycopene into the bicyclic ɛ-carotene in a heterologous
 Escherichia coli system. Regions of the lettuce and
 Arabidopsis ɛ-cyclases involved in the determination
 of ring number were mapped by analysis of chimeric ɛ-cyclases
 constructed by using an inverse PCR approach. A single amino acid was
 found to act as a molecular switch: lettuce LCYe mutant H457L added
 only one ɛ-ring to lycopene, whereas the complementary
 Arabidopsis LCYe mutant, L448H, added two ɛ-rings. An
 R residue in this position also yields a bi-ɛ-cyclase for both the
 lettuce and Arabidopsis enzymes. Construction and
 analysis of chimera of related enzymes with differing catalytic
 activities provide an informative approach that may be of particular
 utility for studying membrane-associated enzymes that cannot easily be
 crystallized or modeled to existing crystal structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The membrane proteins of peripheral light-harvesting complexes
 (LHCs) bind chlorophylls and carotenoids and transfer energy to the
 reaction centers for photosynthesis. LHCs of chlorophytes,
 chromophytes, dinophytes, and rhodophytes are similar in that they have
 three transmembrane regions and several highly conserved Chl-binding
 residues. All LHCs bind Chl a, but in specific taxa
 certain characteristic pigments accompany Chl a: Chl
 b and lutein in chlorophytes, Chl c and
 fucoxanthin in chromophytes, Chl c and peridinin in
 dinophytes, and zeaxanthin in rhodophytes. The specificity of pigment
 binding was examined by in vitro reconstitution of
 various pigments with a simple light-harvesting protein (LHCaR1), from
 a red alga (Porphyridium cruentum), that normally has
 eight Chl a and four zeaxanthin molecules. The pigments
 typical of a chlorophyte (Spinacea oleracea), a
 chromophyte (Thallasiosira fluviatilis), and a dinophyte
 (Prorocentrum micans) were found to functionally bind to
 this protein as evidenced by their participation in energy transfer to
 Chl a, the terminal pigment. This is a demonstration of
 a functional relatedness of rhodophyte and higher plant LHCs. The
 results suggest that eight Chl-binding sites per polypeptide are an
 ancestral trait, and that the flexibility to bind various Chl and
 carotenoid pigments may have been retained throughout the evolution of
 LHCs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is generally accepted that K+ uptake into guard
 cells via inward-rectifying K+ channels is required for
 stomatal opening. To test whether the guard cell K+ channel
 KAT1 is essential for stomatal opening, a knockout mutant,
 KAT1∷En-1, was isolated from an En-1
 mutagenized Arabidopsis thaliana population. Stomatal
 action and K+ uptake, however, were not impaired in
 KAT1-deficient plants. Reverse transcription–PCR experiments with
 isolated guard cell protoplasts showed that in addition to KAT1, the
 K+ channels AKT1, AKT2/3, AtKC1, and KAT2 were expressed
 in this cell type. In impalement measurements, intact guard cells
 exhibited inward-rectifying K+ currents across the plasma
 membrane of both wild-type and KAT1∷En-1 plants.
 This study demonstrates that multiple K+ channel
 transcripts exist in guard cells and that KAT1 is not essential for
 stomatal action.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The allometric relationships for plant annualized biomass
 production (“growth”) rates, different measures of body size (dry
 weight and length), and photosynthetic biomass (or pigment
 concentration) per plant (or cell) are reported for multicellular and
 unicellular plants representing three algal phyla; aquatic ferns;
 aquatic and terrestrial herbaceous dicots; and arborescent monocots,
 dicots, and conifers. Annualized rates of growth G scale
 as the 3/4-power of body mass M over 20 orders of
 magnitude of M (i.e., G ∝
 M3/4); plant body length L
 (i.e., cell length or plant height) scales, on average, as the
 1/4-power of M over 22 orders of magnitude of
 M (i.e., L ∝
 M1/4); and photosynthetic biomass
 Mp scales as the 3/4-power of
 nonphotosynthetic biomass Mn (i.e.,
 Mp ∝
 Mn3/4). Because these scaling
 relationships are indifferent to phylogenetic affiliation and habitat,
 they have far-reaching ecological and evolutionary implications (e.g.,
 net primary productivity is predicted to be largely insensitive to
 community species composition or geological age).
DOC DONE!Abstract
Theory suggests that the risk of extinction by mutation
 accumulation can be comparable to that by environmental stochasticity
 for an isolated population smaller than a few thousand individuals.
 Here we show that metapopulation structure, habitat loss or
 fragmentation, and environmental stochasticity can be expected to
 greatly accelerate the accumulation of mildly deleterious mutations,
 lowering the genetic effective size to such a degree that even large
 metapopulations may be at risk of extinction. Because of mutation
 accumulation, viable metapopulations may need to be far larger and
 better connected than would be required under just stochastic
 demography.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This paper describes the design of a parallel algorithm that uses
 moving fluids in a three-dimensional microfluidic system to solve a
 nondeterministically polynomial complete problem (the maximal clique
 problem) in polynomial time. This algorithm relies on
 (i) parallel fabrication of the microfluidic system,
 (ii) parallel searching of all potential solutions by
 using fluid flow, and (iii) parallel optical readout of
 all solutions. This algorithm was implemented to solve the maximal
 clique problem for a simple graph with six vertices. The successful
 implementation of this algorithm to compute solutions for small-size
 graphs with fluids in microchannels is not useful, per
 se, but does suggest broader application for microfluidics
 in computation and control.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proteasome is a large protease complex consisting of
 multiple catalytic subunits that function simultaneously to digest
 protein substrates. This complexity has made deciphering the role each
 subunit plays in the generation of specific protein fragments
 difficult. Positional scanning libraries of peptide vinyl sulfones were
 generated in which the amino acid located directly at the site of
 hydrolysis (P1 residue) was held constant and sequences distal to that
 residue (P2, P3, and P4 positions) were varied across all natural amino
 acids (except cysteine and methionine). Binding information for each of
 the individual catalytic subunits was obtained for each library under a
 variety of different conditions. The resulting specificity profiles
 indicated that substrate positions distal to P1 are critical for
 directing substrates to active subunits in the complex. Furthermore,
 specificity profiles of IFN-γ-regulated subunits closely matched
 those of their noninducible counterparts, suggesting that subunit
 swapping may modulate substrate processing by a mechanism that does
 require a change in the primary sequence specificity of individual
 catalytic subunits in the complex. Finally, specificity profiles were
 used to design specific inhibitors of a single active site in the
 complex. These reagents can be used to further establish the role of
 each subunit in substrate processing by the proteasome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Connected logic gates can be operated on the levels of one molecule
 by making use of the special properties of high Rydberg states.
 Explicit experimental results for the NO molecule are provided as an
 example. A number of other options, including that of several gates
 concatenated so as to operate as a full adder, are discussed. Specific
 properties of high Rydberg states that are used are: their
 autoionization is delayed so that they can be distinguished from direct
 multiphoton ionization, during their long life such states also can
 decay by energy transfer to the molecular core in a way that can be
 controlled by the judicious application of very weak external
 electrical fields, and the Rydberg states can be detected by the
 application of an ionizing electrical field. The combination of two (or
 three) color photons with and without external weak fields allows the
 construction of quite elaborate logic circuit diagrams and shows that
 taking advantage of the different intramolecular dynamics of levels
 that differ by their excitation enables the compounding of logic
 operations on one molecular frame.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two groups of humans are found in the Near East ≈100,000 years
 ago, the late archaic Neanderthals and the early modern Skhul/Qafzeh
 humans. Observations that Neanderthals were more heavily muscled, had
 stronger upper-limb bones, and possessed unusual shapes and
 orientations of some upper-limb joint complexes relative to the
 Skhul/Qafzeh hominids, have led some researchers to conclude that
 significant between-group upper-limb-related behavioral differences
 must have been present, despite the association of the two groups with
 similar Middle Paleolithic archeological complexes. A three-dimensional
 morphometric analysis of the hand remains of the Skhul/Qafzeh
 hominids, Neanderthals, early and late Upper Paleolithic humans, and
 Holocene humans supports the dichotomy. The Skhul/Qafzeh
 carpometacarpal remains do not have any unique morphologies relative to
 the other fossil samples remains examined. However, in the functionally
 significant metacarpal 1 and 3 bases they resemble Upper Paleolithic
 humans, not Neanderthals. Furthermore, the Skhul/Qafzeh sample
 differs significantly from the Neanderthals in many other aspects of
 hand functional anatomy. Given the correlations between changes in tool
 technologies and functional adaptations seen in the hands of Upper
 Paleolithic humans, it is concluded that the Skhul/Qafzeh hand
 remains were adapted to Upper Paleolithic-like manipulative
 repertoires. These results support the inference of significant
 behavioral differences between Neanderthals and the Skhul/Qafzeh
 hominids and indicate that a significant shift in human manipulative
 behaviors was associated with the earliest stages of the emergence of
 modern humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proteasome is a large protease complex consisting of
 multiple catalytic subunits that function simultaneously to digest
 protein substrates. This complexity has made deciphering the role each
 subunit plays in the generation of specific protein fragments
 difficult. Positional scanning libraries of peptide vinyl sulfones were
 generated in which the amino acid located directly at the site of
 hydrolysis (P1 residue) was held constant and sequences distal to that
 residue (P2, P3, and P4 positions) were varied across all natural amino
 acids (except cysteine and methionine). Binding information for each of
 the individual catalytic subunits was obtained for each library under a
 variety of different conditions. The resulting specificity profiles
 indicated that substrate positions distal to P1 are critical for
 directing substrates to active subunits in the complex. Furthermore,
 specificity profiles of IFN-γ-regulated subunits closely matched
 those of their noninducible counterparts, suggesting that subunit
 swapping may modulate substrate processing by a mechanism that does
 require a change in the primary sequence specificity of individual
 catalytic subunits in the complex. Finally, specificity profiles were
 used to design specific inhibitors of a single active site in the
 complex. These reagents can be used to further establish the role of
 each subunit in substrate processing by the proteasome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Under certain conditions, the prion protein (PrP) undergoes a
 conformational change from the normal cellular isoform,
 PrPC, to PrPSc, an infectious isoform capable
 of causing neurodegenerative diseases in many mammals. Conversion can
 be triggered by low pH, and in vivo this appears to
 take place in an endocytic pathway and/or caveolae-like domains. It
 has thus far been impossible to characterize the conformational change
 at high resolution by experimental methods. Therefore, to investigate
 the effect of acidic pH on PrP conformation, we have performed 10-ns
 molecular dynamics simulations of PrPC in water at neutral
 and low pH. The core of the protein is well maintained at neutral pH.
 At low pH, however, the protein is more dynamic, and the
 sheet-like structure increases both by lengthening of the native
 β-sheet and by addition of a portion of the N terminus to widen the
 sheet by another two strands. The side chain of Met-129, a
 polymorphic codon in humans associated with variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob
 disease, pulls the N terminus into the sheet. Neutralization of Asp-178
 at low pH removes interactions that inhibit conversion, which is
 consistent with the Asp-178–Asn mutation causing human prion diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The discrimination of true oligomeric protein–protein
 contacts from nonspecific crystal contacts remains problematic.
 Criteria that have been used previously base the assignment of
 oligomeric state on consideration of the area of the interface and/or
 the results of scoring functions based on statistical potentials. Both
 techniques have a high success rate but fail in more than 10% of
 cases. More importantly, the oligomeric states of several proteins are
 incorrectly assigned by both methods. Here we test the hypothesis that
 true oligomeric contacts should be identifiable on the basis of an
 increased degree of conservation of the residues involved in the
 interface. By quantifying the degree of conservation of the interface
 and comparing it with that of the remainder of the protein surface, we
 develop a new criterion that provides a highly effective complement to
 existing methods.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phototropin, a major blue-light receptor for phototropism in seed
 plants, exhibits blue-light-dependent autophosphorylation and contains
 two light, oxygen, or voltage (LOV) domains and a serine/threonine
 kinase domain. The LOV domains share homology with the PER-ARNT-SIM
 (PAS) superfamily, a diverse group of sensor proteins. Each LOV domain
 noncovalently binds a single FMN molecule and exhibits reversible
 photochemistry in vitro when expressed separately or in
 tandem. We have determined the crystal structure of the LOV2 domain
 from the phototropin segment of the chimeric fern photoreceptor phy3 to
 2.7-Å resolution. The structure constitutes an FMN-binding fold that
 reveals how the flavin cofactor is embedded in the protein. The
 single LOV2 cysteine residue is located 4.2 Å from flavin atom C(4a),
 consistent with a model in which absorption of blue light induces
 formation of a covalent cysteinyl-C(4a) adduct. Residues that interact
 with FMN in the phototropin segment of the chimeric fern photoreceptor
 (phy3) LOV2 are conserved in LOV domains from phototropin of other
 plant species and from three proteins involved in the regulation of
 circadian rhythms in Arabidopsis and
 Neurospora. This conservation suggests that these
 domains exhibit the same overall fold and share a common mechanism
 for flavin binding and light-induced signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of the phagocyte NADPH oxidase complex requires the
 assembly of the cytosolic factors p47PHOX,
 p67PHOX, p40PHOX, and Rac1 or Rac2, with the
 membrane-bound cytochrome b558. Whereas the
 interaction of p47PHOX with cytochrome
 b558 is well established, an interaction
 between p67PHOX and cytochrome
 b558 has never been investigated. We report
 here a direct interaction between p67PHOX and cytochrome
 b558. First, labeled p67PHOX
 recognizes a 91-kDa band in specific granules from a normal patient but
 not from a cytochrome b558-deficient
 patient. Second, p67PHOX binds to cytochrome
 b558 that has been bound to nitrocellulose.
 Third, GTP-p67PHOX bound to glutathione agarose is able to
 pull down cytochrome b558. Rac1-GTP or
 Rac1-GDP increased the binding of p67PHOX to cytochrome
 b558, suggesting that at least one of the
 oxidase-related functions of Rac1 is to promote the interaction between
 p67PHOX and cytochrome b558.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By using a Raman microscope, we show that it is possible to probe
 the conformational states in protein crystals and crystal fragments
 under growth conditions (in hanging drops). The flavin cofactor in the
 enzyme para-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase can assume two
 conformations: buried in the protein matrix (“in”) or essentially
 solvent-exposed (“out”). By using Raman difference spectroscopy,
 we previously have identified characteristic flavin marker bands for
 the in and out conformers in the solution phase. Now we show that the
 flavin Raman bands can be used to probe these conformational states in
 crystals, permitting a comparison between solution and crystal
 environments. The in or out marker bands are similar for the respective
 conformers in the crystal and in solution; however, significant
 differences do exist, showing that the environments for the flavin's
 isoalloxazine ring are not identical in the two phases. Moreover, the
 Raman-band widths of the flavin modes are narrower for both in and out
 conformers in the crystals, indicating that the flavin exists in a more
 limited range of closely related conformational states in the crystal
 than in solution. In general, the ability to compare detailed Raman
 data for complexes in crystals and solution provides a means of
 bridging crystallographic and solution studies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structures of two isoforms of Bcl-2 that differ by two amino
 acids have been determined by NMR spectroscopy. Because wild-type Bcl-2
 behaved poorly in solution, the structures were determined by using
 Bcl-2/Bcl-xL chimeras in which part of the putative
 unstructured loop of Bcl-2 was replaced with a shortened loop from
 Bcl-xL. These chimeric proteins have a low pI compared with
 the wild-type protein and are soluble. The structures of the two Bcl-2
 isoforms consist of 6 α-helices with a hydrophobic groove on the
 surface similar to that observed for the homologous protein,
 Bcl-xL. Comparison of the Bcl-2 structures to that of
 Bcl-xL shows that although the overall fold is the same,
 there are differences in the structural topology and electrostatic
 potential of the binding groove. Although the structures of the two
 isoforms of Bcl-2 are virtually identical, differences were observed in
 the ability of the proteins to bind to a 25-residue peptide from the
 proapoptotic Bad protein and a 16-residue peptide from the
 proapoptotic Bak protein. These results suggest that there are
 subtle differences in the hydrophobic binding groove in Bcl-2 that may
 translate into differences in antiapoptotic activity for the
 two isoforms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) has been
 identified to mainly inhibit cell growth, the correlation of elevated
 TGF-β with increasing serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in
 metastatic stages of prostate cancer has also been well documented. The
 molecular mechanism for these two contrasting effects of TGF-β,
 however, remains unclear. Here we report that Smad3, a downstream
 mediator of the TGF-β signaling pathway, functions as a coregulator
 to enhance androgen receptor (AR)-mediated transactivation. Compared
 with the wild-type AR, Smad3 acts as a strong coregulator in the
 presence of 1 nM 5α-dihydrotestosterone, 10 nM 17β-estradiol, or 1
 μM hydroxyflutamide for the LNCaP mutant AR (mtAR T877A), found in
 many prostate tumor patients. We further showed that
 endogenous PSA expression in LNCaP cells can be induced by
 5α-dihydrotestosterone, and the addition of the Smad3 further induces
 PSA expression. Together, our findings establish Smad3 as an important
 coregulator for the androgen-signaling pathway and provide a possible
 explanation for the positive role of TGF-β in androgen-promoted
 prostate cancer growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using a spectrophotometric assay that measures the hyperchromicity
 that accompanies the unwinding of a DNA duplex, we have identified an
 ATP-independent step in the unwinding of a herpes simplex virus type 1
 (HSV-1) origin of replication, Oris, by a complex of the
 HSV-1 origin binding protein (UL9 protein) and the HSV-1 single-strand
 DNA binding protein (ICP8). The sequence unwound is the 18-bp A +
 T-rich segment that links the two high-affinity UL9 protein binding
 sites, boxes I and II of Oris. P1 nuclease sensitivity of
 Oris and single-strand DNA-dependent ATPase measurements of
 the UL9 protein indicate that, at 37°C, the A + T-rich segment is
 sufficiently single stranded to permit the binding of ICP8. Binding of
 the UL9 protein to boxes I and II then results in the formation of the
 UL9 protein–ICP8 complex, that can, in the absence of ATP, promote
 unwinding of the A + T-rich segment. On addition of ATP, the helicase
 activity of the UL9 protein–ICP8 complex can unwind boxes I and II,
 permitting access of the replication machinery to the Oris
 sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding infertility and sterility requires knowledge of the
 molecular mechanisms underlying sexual reproduction. We have found that
 male mice deficient for the gene encoding the protease inhibitor
 protease nexin-1 (PN-1) show a marked impairment in fertility from the
 onset of sexual maturity. Absence of PN-1 results in altered semen
 protein composition, which leads to inadequate semen coagulation and
 deficient vaginal plug formation upon copulation. Progressive
 morphological changes of the seminal vesicles also are observed.
 Consistent with these findings, abnormal PN-1 expression was found in
 the semen of men displaying seminal dysfunction. The data demonstrate
 that the level of extracellular proteolytic activity is a critical
 element in controlling male fertility.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In response to IFN-γ, the latent cytoplasmic Stat1 (signal
 transducer and activator of transcription) proteins translocate into
 the nucleus and activate transcription. We showed previously that Stat1
 recruits a group of nuclear proteins, among them MCM5 (minichromosome
 maintenance) and MCM3, for transcription activation. MCM5 directly
 interacts with the transcription activation domain (TAD) of Stat1 and
 enhances Stat1-mediated transcription activation. In this report, we
 identified two specific residues (R732, K734) in MCM5 that are required
 for the direct interaction between Stat1 and MCM5 both in
 vitro and in vivo. MCM5 containing mutations of
 R732/K734 did not enhance Stat1-mediated transcription activation in
 response to IFN-γ. In addition, it also failed to form complexes with
 other MCM proteins in vivo, suggesting that these two
 residues may be important for an interaction domain in MCM5.
 Furthermore, MCM5 bearing mutations in its ATPase and helicase domains
 did not enhance Stat1 activity. In vitro binding assays
 indicate that MCM3 does not interact directly with Stat1, suggesting
 that the presence of MCM3 in the group of Stat1TAD-interacting proteins
 is due to the association of MCM3 with MCM5. Finally, gel filtration
 analyses of nuclear extracts from INF-γ-treated cells demonstrate
 that there is a MCM5/3 subcomplex coeluting with Stat1. Together,
 these results strongly suggest that Stat1 recruits a MCM5/3
 subcomplex through direct interaction with MCM5 in the process of
 IFN-γ-induced gene activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
SsrA RNA acts as a tRNA and mRNA to modify proteins whose synthesis
 on ribosomes has stalled. Such proteins are marked for degradation by
 addition of peptide tags to their C termini in a reaction mediated by
 SsrA RNA and SmpB, a specific SsrA-RNA binding protein. Evidence is
 presented here for the existence of a larger ribonucleoprotein complex
 that contains ribosomal protein S1, phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate
 synthase, RNase R, and YfbG in addition to SsrA RNA and SmpB.
 Biochemical, genetic, and phylogenetic results suggest potential roles
 for some of these factors in various stages of the ribosome rescue and
 tagging process and/or the presence of functional interactions
 between one or more of these proteins and SsrA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Type II DNA topoisomerases actively reduce the fractions of knotted
 and catenated circular DNA below thermodynamic equilibrium values. To
 explain this surprising finding, we designed a model in which
 topoisomerases introduce a sharp bend in DNA. Because the enzymes have
 a specific orientation relative to the bend, they act like Maxwell's
 demon, providing unidirectional strand passage. Quantitative analysis
 of the model by computer simulations proved that it can explain much of
 the experimental data. The required sharp DNA bend was demonstrated by
 a greatly increased cyclization of short DNA fragments from
 topoisomerase binding and by direct visualization with electron
 microscopy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of the mRNA capping apparatus of the malaria parasite
 Plasmodium falciparum illuminates an evolutionary
 connection to fungi rather than metazoans. We show that P.
 falciparum encodes separate RNA guanylyltransferase (Pgt1) and
 RNA triphosphatase (Prt1) enzymes and that the triphosphatase component
 is a member of the fungal/viral family of metal-dependent
 phosphohydrolases, which are structurally and mechanistically unrelated
 to the cysteine-phosphatase-type RNA triphosphatases found in metazoans
 and plants. These results highlight the potential for discovery of
 mechanism-based antimalarial drugs designed to specifically block the
 capping of Plasmodium mRNAs. A simple heuristic scheme
 of eukaryotic phylogeny is suggested based on the structure and
 physical linkage of the triphosphatase and guanylyltransferase enzymes
 that catalyze cap formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The RPN4 (SON1, UFD5) protein of the yeast Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae is required for normal levels of intracellular
 proteolysis. RPN4 is a transcriptional activator of genes encoding
 proteasomal subunits. Here we show that RPN4 is required for normal
 levels of these subunits. Further, we demonstrate that RPN4 is
 extremely short-lived (t1/2 ≈2 min), that
 it directly interacts with RPN2, a subunit of the 26S proteasome, and
 that rpn4Δ cells are perturbed in their cell cycle.
 The degradation signal of RPN4 was mapped to its N-terminal region,
 outside the transcription–activation domains of RPN4. The ability of
 RPN4 to augment the synthesis of proteasomal subunits while being
 metabolically unstable yields a negative feedback circuit in which the
 same protein up-regulates the proteasome production and is destroyed by
 the assembled active proteasome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The reactivation of telomerase activity in most cancer cells
 supports the concept that telomerase is a relevant target in oncology,
 and telomerase inhibitors have been proposed as new potential
 anticancer agents. The telomeric G-rich single-stranded DNA can adopt
 in vitro an intramolecular quadruplex structure, which
 has been shown to inhibit telomerase activity. We used a fluorescence
 assay to identify molecules that stabilize G-quadruplexes.
 Intramolecular folding of an oligonucleotide with four repeats of the
 human telomeric sequence into a G-quadruplex structure led to
 fluorescence excitation energy transfer between a donor (fluorescein)
 and an acceptor (tetramethylrhodamine) covalently attached to the 5′
 and 3′ ends of the oligonucleotide, respectively. The melting of
 the G-quadruplex was monitored in the presence of putative
 G-quadruplex-binding molecules by measuring the fluorescence emission
 of the donor. A series of compounds (pentacyclic crescent-shaped
 dibenzophenanthroline derivatives) was shown to increase the melting
 temperature of the G-quadruplex by 2–20°C at 1 μM dye
 concentration. This increase in Tm value was
 well correlated with an increase in the efficiency of telomerase
 inhibition in vitro. The best telomerase inhibitor
 showed an IC50 value of 28 nM in a standard telomerase
 repeat amplification protocol assay. Fluorescence energy transfer can
 thus be used to reveal the formation of four-stranded DNA structures,
 and its stabilization by quadruplex-binding agents, in an effort to
 discover new potent telomerase inhibitors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cytochrome P450 14α-sterol demethylases (CYP51) are essential
 enzymes in sterol biosynthesis in eukaryotes. CYP51 removes the
 14α-methyl group from sterol precursors such as lanosterol,
 obtusifoliol, dihydrolanosterol, and
 24(28)-methylene-24,25-dihydrolanosterol. Inhibitors of CYP51 include
 triazole antifungal agents fluconazole and itraconazole, drugs used in
 treatment of topical and systemic mycoses. The 2.1- and 2.2-Å crystal
 structures reported here for 4-phenylimidazole- and fluconazole-bound
 CYP51 from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTCYP51) are the
 first structures of an authentic P450 drug target. MTCYP51 exhibits the
 P450 fold with the exception of two striking differences—a bent I
 helix and an open conformation of BC loop—that define an active
 site-access channel running along the heme plane perpendicular to the
 direction observed for the substrate entry in P450BM3. Although a
 channel analogous to that in P450BM3 is evident also in MTCYP51, it is
 not open at the surface. The presence of two different channels, with
 one being open to the surface, suggests the possibility of
 conformationally regulated substrate-in/product-out openings in
 CYP51. Mapping mutations identified in Candida albicans
 azole-resistant isolates indicates that azole resistance in fungi
 develops in protein regions involved in orchestrating passage of CYP51
 through different conformational stages along the catalytic cycle
 rather than in residues directly contacting fluconazole. These new
 structures provide a basis for rational design of new, more efficacious
 antifungal agents as well as insight into the molecular mechanism of
 P450 catalysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The energy of DNA deformation plays a crucial and active role in
 its packaging and its function in the cell. Considerable effort has
 gone into developing methodologies capable of evaluating the local
 sequence-directed curvature and flexibility of a DNA chain. These
 studies thus far have focused on DNA constructs expressly tailored
 either with anomalous flexibility or curvature tracts. Here we
 demonstrate that these two structural properties can be mapped also
 along the chain of a “natural” DNA with any sequence on the basis
 of its scanning force microscope (SFM) images. To know the orientation
 of the sequence of the investigated DNA molecules in their SFM images,
 we prepared a palindromic dimer of the long DNA molecule under study.
 The palindromic symmetry also acted as an internal gauge of the
 statistical significance of the analysis carried out on the SFM images
 of the dimer molecules. It was found that although the curvature
 modulus is not efficient in separating static and dynamic contributions
 to the curvature of the population of molecules, the curvature taken
 with its direction (its sign in two dimensions) permits the direct
 separation of the intrinsic curvature from the flexibility
 contributions. The sequence-dependent flexibility seems to vary
 monotonically with the chain's intrinsic curvature; the chain rigidity
 was found to modulate as its local thermodynamic stability and does not
 correlate with the dinucleotide chain rigidities evaluation made from
 x-ray data by other authors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Regulation of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) by protein inhibitors and
 targeting subunits has been previously studied through the use of
 recombinant protein expressed in Escherichia coli. This
 preparation is limited by several key differences in its properties
 compared with native PP1. In the present study, we have analyzed
 recombinant PP1 expressed in Sf9 insect cells using baculovirus. Sf9
 PP1 exhibited properties identical to those of native PP1, with respect
 to regulation by metals, inhibitor proteins, and targeting subunits,
 and failure to dephosphorylate a phosphotyrosine-containing substrate
 or phospho-DARPP-32 (Dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein,
 Mr 32,000). Mutations at Y272 in the β12/β13
 loop resulted in a loss of activity and reduced the sensitivity to
 thiophospho-DARPP-32 and inhibitor-2. Mutations of Y272 also increased
 the relative activity toward a phosphotyrosine-containing substrate or
 phospho-DARPP-32. Mutation of acidic groove residues caused no change
 in sensitivity to thiophospho-DARPP-32 or inhibitor-2, but one mutant
 (E252A:D253A:E256R) exhibited an increased
 Km for phosphorylase a.
 Several PP1/PP2A chimeras were prepared in which C-terminal sequences
 of PP2A were substituted into PP1. Replacement of residues 274–330 of
 PP1 with the corresponding region of PP2A resulted in a large loss of
 sensitivity to thiophospho-DARPP-32 and inhibitor-2, and also resulted
 in a loss of interaction with the targeting subunits, spinophilin and
 PP1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS). More limited alterations in
 residues in β12, β13, and β14 strands highlighted a key role for
 M290 and C291 in the interaction of PP1 with thiophospho-DARPP-32, but
 not inhibitor-2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The product of the herpes simplex virus type 1 UL28
 gene is essential for cleavage of concatemeric viral DNA into
 genome-length units and packaging of this DNA into viral procapsids. To
 address the role of UL28 in this process, purified
 UL28 protein was assayed for the ability to recognize
 conserved herpesvirus DNA packaging sequences. We report that DNA
 fragments containing the pac1 DNA packaging motif can be
 induced by heat treatment to adopt novel DNA conformations that migrate
 faster than the corresponding duplex in nondenaturing gels.
 Surprisingly, these novel DNA structures are high-affinity substrates
 for UL28 protein binding, whereas double-stranded DNA of
 identical sequence composition is not recognized by UL28
 protein. We demonstrate that only one strand of the pac1
 motif is responsible for the formation of novel DNA structures that are
 bound tightly and specifically by UL28 protein. To
 determine the relevance of the observed UL28
 protein–pac1 interaction to the cleavage and packaging
 process, we have analyzed the binding affinity of UL28
 protein for pac1 mutants previously shown to be
 deficient in cleavage and packaging in vivo. Each of the
 pac1 mutants exhibited a decrease in DNA binding by
 UL28 protein that correlated directly with the reported
 reduction in cleavage and packaging efficiency, thereby supporting a
 role for the UL28 protein–pac1 interaction
 in vivo. These data therefore suggest that the formation
 of novel DNA structures by the pac1 motif confers added
 specificity on recognition of DNA packaging sequences by the
 UL28-encoded component of the herpesvirus cleavage and
 packaging machinery.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The (β/α)8 barrel is the most commonly
 occurring fold among protein catalysts. To lay a groundwork for
 engineering novel barrel proteins, we investigated the amino acid
 sequence restrictions at 182 structural positions of the prototypical
 (β/α)8 barrel enzyme triosephosphate
 isomerase. Using combinatorial mutagenesis and functional selection, we
 find that turn sequences, α-helix capping and stop motifs, and
 residues that pack the interface between β-strands and α-helices
 are highly mutable. Conversely, any mutation of residues in the central
 core of the β-barrel, β-strand stop motifs, and a single buried
 salt bridge between amino acids R189 and D227 substantially reduces
 catalytic activity. Four positions are effectively immutable:
 conservative single substitutions at these four positions prevent the
 mutant protein from complementing a triosephosphate isomerase knockout
 in Escherichia coli. At 142 of the 182 positions,
 mutation to at least one amino acid of a seven-letter amino acid
 alphabet produces a triosephosphate isomerase with wild-type activity.
 Consequently, it seems likely that (β/α)8
 barrel structures can be encoded with a subset of the 20 amino acids.
 Such simplification would greatly decrease the computational burden of
 (β/α)8 barrel design.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) are ubiquitous stress
 proteins proposed to act as molecular chaperones to prevent
 irreversible protein denaturation. We characterized the chaperone
 activity of Synechocystis HSP17 and found that it has
 not only protein-protective activity, but also a previously
 unrecognized ability to stabilize lipid membranes. Like other sHSPs,
 recombinant Synechocystis HSP17 formed stable complexes
 with denatured malate dehydrogenase and served as a reservoir for the
 unfolded substrate, transferring it to the DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE and
 GroEL/ES chaperone network for subsequent refolding. Large
 unilamellar vesicles made of synthetic and cyanobacterial lipids were
 found to modulate this refolding process. Investigation of HSP17-lipid
 interactions revealed a preference for the liquid crystalline phase and
 resulted in an elevated physical order in model lipid membranes. Direct
 evidence for the participation of HSP17 in the control of thylakoid
 membrane physical state in vivo was gained by examining
 an hsp17− deletion mutant compared with the
 isogenic wild-type hsp17+ revertant
 Synechocystis cells. We suggest that, together with
 GroEL, HSP17 behaves as an amphitropic protein and plays a dual role.
 Depending on its membrane or cytosolic location, it may function as a
 “membrane stabilizing factor” as well as a member of a
 multichaperone protein-folding network. Membrane association of sHSPs
 could antagonize the heat-induced hyperfluidization of specific
 membrane domains and thereby serve to preserve structural and
 functional integrity of biomembranes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The human and animal fatty acid synthases are dimers of two
 identical multifunctional proteins (Mr
 272,000) arranged in an antiparallel configuration. This arrangement
 generates two active centers for fatty acid synthesis separated by
 interdomain (ID) regions and predicts that two appropriate halves of
 the monomer should be able to reconstitute an active fatty acid
 synthesizing center. This prediction was confirmed by the
 reconstitution of the synthase active center by using two
 heterologously expressed halves of the monomer protein. Each of these
 recombinant halves of synthase monomer contains half of the ID regions.
 We show here that the fatty acid synthase activity could not be
 reconstituted when the ID sequences present in the two recombinant
 halves are deleted, suggesting that these ID sequences are essential
 for fatty acid synthase dimer formation. Further, we confirm that the
 ID sequences are the only regions of fatty acid synthase monomers that
 showed significant dimer formation, by using the yeast two-hybrid
 system. These results are consistent with the proposal that the ID
 region, which has no known catalytic activity, associates readily and
 holds together the two dynamic active centers of the fatty acid
 synthase dimer, therefore playing an important role in the architecture
 of catalytically active fatty acid synthase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Arc repressor forms a homodimer in which the subunits intertwine to
 create a single globular domain. To obtain Arc sequences that fold
 preferentially as heterodimers, variants with surface patches of excess
 positive or negative charge were designed. Several but not all
 oppositely charged sequence pairs showed preferential heterodimer
 formation. In the most successful design pair, α helix B of one
 subunit contained glutamic acids at positions 43, 46, 47, 48, and 50,
 whereas the other subunit contained lysines or arginines at these
 positions. A continuum electrostatic model captures many features of
 the experimental results and suggests that the most successful designs
 include elements of both positive and negative design.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The x-ray structure of a C-terminal fragment of the RAP74 subunit
 of human transcription factor (TF) IIF has been determined at 1.02-Å
 resolution. The α/β structure is strikingly similar to the
 globular domain of linker histone H5 and the DNA-binding domain of
 hepatocyte nuclear factor 3γ (HNF-3γ), making it a winged-helix
 protein. The surface electrostatic properties of this compact domain
 differ significantly from those of bona fide
 winged-helix transcription factors (HNF-3γ and RFX1) and from the
 winged-helix domains found within the RAP30 subunit of TFIIF and the
 β subunit of TFIIE. RAP74 has been shown to interact with the
 TFIIF-associated C-terminal domain phosphatase FCP1, and a putative
 phosphatase binding site has been identified within the RAP74
 winged-helix domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The wealth of kinetic and structural information makes inorganic
 pyrophosphatases (PPases) a good model system to study the details of
 enzymatic phosphoryl transfer. The enzyme accelerates metal-complexed
 phosphoryl transfer 1010-fold: but how? Our structures of
 the yeast PPase product complex at 1.15 Å and fluoride-inhibited
 complex at 1.9 Å visualize the active site in three different states:
 substrate-bound, immediate product bound, and relaxed product bound.
 These span the steps around chemical catalysis and provide strong
 evidence that a water molecule (Onu) directly attacks PPi
 with a pKa vastly lowered by coordination to
 two metal ions and D117. They also suggest that a low-barrier hydrogen
 bond (LBHB) forms between D117 and Onu, in part because of
 steric crowding by W100 and N116. Direct visualization of the double
 bonds on the phosphates appears possible. The flexible side chains at
 the top of the active site absorb the motion involved in the reaction,
 which may help accelerate catalysis. Relaxation of the product allows a
 new nucleophile to be generated and creates symmetry in the elementary
 catalytic steps on the enzyme. We are thus moving closer to
 understanding phosphoryl transfer in PPases at the quantum mechanical
 level. Ultra-high resolution structures can thus tease out overlapping
 complexes and so are as relevant to discussion of enzyme mechanism as
 structures produced by time-resolved crystallography.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The zinc metallopeptidase neurolysin is shown by x-ray
 crystallography to have large structural elements erected over the
 active site region that allow substrate access only through a deep
 narrow channel. This architecture accounts for specialization of this
 neuropeptidase to small bioactive peptide substrates without bulky
 secondary and tertiary structures. In addition, modeling studies
 indicate that the length of a substrate N-terminal to the site of
 hydrolysis is restricted to approximately 10 residues by the limited
 size of the active site cavity. Some structural elements of neurolysin,
 including a five-stranded β-sheet and the two active site helices,
 are conserved with other metallopeptidases. The connecting loop
 regions of these elements, however, are much extended in neurolysin,
 and they, together with other open coil elements, line the active site
 cavity. These potentially flexible elements may account for the ability
 of the enzyme to cleave a variety of sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The NMR structure of the rat calreticulin P-domain, comprising
 residues 189–288, CRT(189–288), shows a hairpin fold that involves
 the entire polypeptide chain, has the two chain ends in close spatial
 proximity, and does not fold back on itself. This globally extended
 structure is stabilized by three antiparallel β-sheets, with the
 β-strands comprising the residues 189–192 and 276–279, 206–209 and
 262–265, and 223–226 and 248–251, respectively. The hairpin loop of
 residues 227–247 and the two connecting regions between the β-sheets
 contain a hydrophobic cluster, where each of the three clusters
 includes two highly conserved tryptophyl residues, one from each strand
 of the hairpin. The three β-sheets and the three hydrophobic clusters
 form a repeating pattern of interactions across the hairpin that
 reflects the periodicity of the amino acid sequence, which consists of
 three 17-residue repeats followed by three 14-residue repeats. Within
 the global hairpin fold there are two well-ordered subdomains
 comprising the residues 219–258, and 189–209 and 262–284,
 respectively. These are separated by a poorly ordered linker region, so
 that the relative orientation of the two subdomains cannot be precisely
 described. The structure type observed for CRT(189–288) provides an
 additional basis for functional studies of the abundant endoplasmic
 reticulum chaperone calreticulin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Here we study the effect of point mutations in proteins on the
 redistributions of the conformational substates. We show that
 regardless of the location of a mutation in the protein structure and
 of its type, the observed movements of the backbone recur largely at
 the same positions in the structures. Despite the different
 interactions that are disrupted and formed by the residue substitution,
 not only are the conformations very similar, but the regions that move
 are also the same, regardless of their sequential or spatial distance
 from the mutation. This observation leads us to conclude that, apart
 from some extreme cases, the details of the interactions are not
 critically important in determining the protein conformation or in
 specifying which parts of the protein would be more prone to take on
 different local conformations in response to changes in the sequence.
 This finding further illustrates why proteins manifest a robustness
 toward many mutational events. This nonuniform distribution of the
 conformer population is consistently observed in a variety of protein
 structural types. Topology is critically important in determining
 folding pathways, kinetics, building block cutting, and anatomy trees.
 Here we show that topology is also very important in determining which
 regions of the protein structure will respond to sequence changes,
 regardless of the sequential or spatial location of the mutation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Self-organization is a common theme in biology. One mechanism of
 self-organization is the creation of chemical patterns by the diffusion
 of chemical reactants and their nonlinear interactions. We have
 recently observed sustained unidirectional traveling chemical redox
 [NAD(P)H − NAD(P)+] waves within living polarized
 neutrophils. The present study shows that an intracellular metabolic
 wave responds to formyl peptide receptor agonists, but not antagonists,
 by splitting into two waves traveling in opposite directions along a
 cell's long axis. Similar effects were noted with other
 neutrophil-activating substances. Moreover, when cells were exposed to
 an
 N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine
 (FMLP) gradient whose source was perpendicular to the cell's long
 axis, cell metabolism was locally perturbed with reorientation of the
 pattern in a direction perpendicular to the initial cellular axis.
 Thus, extracellular activating signals and the signals' spatial cues
 are translated into distinct intracellular dissipative structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent measurements of sedimentation equilibrium and
 sedimentation velocity have shown that the bacterial cell division
 protein FtsZ self-associates to form indefinitely long rod-like linear
 aggregates in the presence of GDP and Mg2+. In the present
 study, the newly developed technique of non-ideal tracer sedimentation
 equilibrium was used to measure the effect of high concentrations—up
 to 150 g/liter—of each of two inert “crowder” proteins,
 cyanmethemoglobin or BSA, on the thermodynamic activity and state of
 association of dilute FtsZ under conditions inhibiting
 (−Mg2+) and promoting (+Mg2+) FtsZ
 self-association. Analysis of equilibrium gradients of both FtsZ and
 crowder proteins indicates that, under the conditions of the present
 experiment, FtsZ interacts with each of the two crowder proteins
 essentially entirely via steric repulsion, which may be accounted for
 quantitatively by a simple model in which hemoglobin, albumin, and
 monomeric FtsZ are modeled as effective spherical hard particles, and
 each oligomeric species of FtsZ is modeled as an effective hard
 spherocylinder. The functional dependence of the sedimentation of FtsZ
 on the concentrations of FtsZ and either crowder indicates that, in the
 presence of high concentrations of crowder, both the weight-average
 degree of FtsZ self-association and the range of FtsZ oligomer sizes
 present in significant abundance are increased substantially.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proliferative compartment of stratified squamous epithelia
 consists of stem and transient amplifying (TA) keratinocytes. Some
 polypeptides are more abundant in putative epidermal stem cells than in
 TA cells, but no polypeptide confined to the stem cells has yet been
 identified. Here we show that the p63 transcription factor, a p53
 homologue essential for regenerative proliferation in epithelial
 development, distinguishes human keratinocyte stem cells from their TA
 progeny. Within the cornea, nuclear p63 is expressed by the basal cells
 of the limbal epithelium, but not by TA cells covering the corneal
 surface. Human keratinocyte stem and TA cells when isolated in culture
 give rise to holoclones and paraclones, respectively. We show by clonal
 analysis that p63 is abundantly expressed by epidermal and limbal
 holoclones, but is undetectable in paraclones. TA keratinocytes,
 immediately after their withdrawal from the stem cell compartment
 (meroclones), have greatly reduced p63, even though they possess very
 appreciable proliferative capacity. Clonal evolution (i.e., generation
 of TA cells from precursor stem cells) is promoted by the sigma isoform
 of the 14-3-3 family of proteins. Keratinocytes whose 14-3-3σ has
 been down-regulated remain in the stem cell compartment and maintain
 p63 during serial cultivation. The identification of p63 as a
 keratinocyte stem cell marker will be of practical importance for the
 clinical application of epithelial cultures in cell therapy as well as
 for studies on epithelial tumorigenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Arp2/3 complex is implicated in actin
 polymerization-driven movement of Listeria
 monocytogenes. Here, we find that Arp2p and Arc15p, two
 subunits of this complex, show tight, actin-independent association
 with isolated yeast mitochondria. Arp2p colocalizes with mitochondria.
 Consistent with this result, we detect Arp2p-dependent formation of
 actin clouds around mitochondria in intact yeast. Cells bearing
 mutations in ARP2 or ARC15 genes show
 decreased velocities of mitochondrial movement, loss of all directed
 movement and defects in mitochondrial morphology. Finally, we observe a
 decrease in the velocity and extent of mitochondrial movement in yeast
 in which actin dynamics are reduced but actin cytoskeletal structure is
 intact. These results support the idea that the movement of
 mitochondria in yeast is actin polymerization driven and that this
 movement requires Arp2/3 complex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian homologues of Drosophila Trp form plasma
 membrane channels that mediate Ca2+ influx in response to
 activation of phospholipase C and internal Ca2+ store
 depletion. Previous studies showed that human Trp3 is activated by
 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors
 (IP3Rs) and identified interacting domains, one on Trp and
 two on IP3R. We now find that Trp3 binds
 Ca2+-calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM) at a
 site that overlaps with the IP3R binding domain. Using
 patch-clamp recordings from inside-out patches, we further show that
 Trp3 has a high intrinsic activity that is suppressed by
 Ca2+/CaM under resting conditions, and that Trp3 is
 activated by the following: a Trp-binding peptide from IP3R
 that displaces CaM from Trp3, a myosin light chain kinase
 Ca2+/CaM binding peptide that prevents CaM from binding
 to Trp3, and calmidazolium, an inactivator of Ca2+/CaM.
 We conclude that inhibition of the inhibitory action of CaM is a key
 step of Trp3 channel activation by IP3Rs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae SGS1 gene encodes a
 RecQ-like DNA helicase, human homologues of which are implicated in the
 genetic instability disorders, Bloom syndrome (BS), Rothmund-Thomson
 syndrome (RTS), and Werner syndrome (WS). Telomerase-negative yeast
 cells can recover from senescence via two recombinational telomere
 elongation pathways. The “type I” pathway generates telomeres
 with large blocks of telomeric and subtelomeric sequences and short
 terminal repeat tracts. The “type II” pathway generates telomeres
 with extremely long heterogeneous terminal repeat tracts, reminiscent
 of the long telomeres observed in telomerase-deficient human tumors and
 tumor-derived cell lines. Here, we report that telomerase-negative
 (est2) yeast cells lacking SGS1 senesced
 more rapidly, experienced a higher rate of telomere erosion, and were
 delayed in the generation of survivors. The est2 sgs1
 survivors that were generated grew poorly, arrested in
 G2/M and possessed exclusively type I telomeres, implying
 that SGS1 is critical for the type II pathway. The mouse
 WS gene suppressed the slow growth and G2/M arrest
 phenotype of est2 sgs1 survivors, arguing that the
 telomeric function of SGS1 is conserved. Reintroduction
 of SGS1 into est2 sgs1 survivors restored
 growth rate and extended terminal tracts by ≈300 bp. Both phenotypes
 were absolutely dependent on Sgs1 helicase activity. Introduction of an
 sgs1 carboxyl-terminal truncation allele with helicase
 activity restored growth rate without extending telomeres in most
 cases, demonstrating that type II telomeres are not necessary for
 normal growth in the absence of telomerase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The high affinity receptor for IgE, FcɛRI on mast cells and
 basophils plays an essential role in immunological defense. Upon
 multivalent antigen binding, FcɛRI becomes phoshorylated by the
 protein-tyrosine kinase Lyn, as a result of receptor clustering in
 lipid rafts. FcɛRI has been shown to be ubiquitinated. Ubiquitination
 can lead to degradation by proteasomes, but it can also act as a
 sorting signal to internalize proteins destined to the
 endosomal/lysosomal pathway. We have analyzed whether FcɛRI
 ubiquitination takes place within rafts. We report biochemical and
 imaging evidence in rat basoleukemia cells for the presence of
 ubiquitinated FcɛRI in clustered rafts upon receptor activation.
 Moreover, we demonstrated that the ubiquitin ligases Cbl and Nedd4
 colocalize with FcɛRI patches and showed that both ligases become
 associated with lipid rafts after activation of IgE signaling. Because
 Cbl is known to interact with the FcɛRI signaling complex,
 ubiquitination is likely to be an important parameter regulating
 IgE-triggered signaling occurring in rafts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The pore-forming toxin streptolysin O (SLO) can be used to
 reversibly permeabilize adherent and nonadherent cells, allowing
 delivery of molecules with up to 100 kDa mass to the cytosol. Using
 FITC-labeled albumin, 105–106 molecules were
 estimated to be entrapped per cell. Repair of toxin lesions depended on
 Ca2+-calmodulin and on intact microtubules, but
 was not sensitive to actin disruption or to inhibition of protein
 synthesis. Resealed cells were viable for days and retained the
 capacity to endocytose and to proliferate. The active domains of large
 clostridial toxins were introduced into three different cell lines. The
 domains were derived from Clostridium difficile B-toxin
 and Clostridium sordelli lethal toxin, which glycosylate
 small G-proteins, and from Clostridium botulinum C2
 toxin, which ADP-ribosylates actin. After delivery with SLO, all three
 toxins disrupted the actin cytoskeleton to cause rounding up of the
 cells. Glucosylation assays demonstrated that G-proteins Rho and Ras
 were retained in the permeabilized cells and were modified by the
 respective toxins. Inactivation of these G-proteins resulted in reduced
 stimulus-dependent granule secretion, whereas ADP-ribosylation of actin
 by the C. botulinum C2-toxin resulted in enhanced
 secretion in cells. The presented method for introducing proteins into
 living cells should find multifaceted application in cell biology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The NUP98 gene encodes precursor proteins that generate two
 nucleoplasmically oriented nucleoporins, NUP98 and NUP96. By using gene
 targeting, we have selectively disrupted the murine NUP98 protein,
 leaving intact the expression and localization of NUP96. We show that
 NUP98 is essential for mouse gastrulation, a developmental stage that
 is associated with rapid cell proliferation, but dispensable for basal
 cell growth. NUP98−/− cells had an intact nuclear envelope with a
 normal number of embedded nuclear pore complexes. Typically,
 NUP98-deficient cells contained on average approximately 5-fold more
 cytoplasmic annulate lamellae than control cells. We found that a set
 of cytoplasmically oriented nucleoporins, including NUP358, NUP214,
 NUP88, and p62, assembled inefficiently into nuclear pores of
 NUP98−/− cells. Instead, these nucleoporins were prominently
 associated with the annulate lamellae. By contrast, a group of
 nucleoplasmically oriented nucleoporins, including NUP153, NUP50,
 NUP96, and NUP93, had no affinity for annulate lamellae and assembled
 normally into nuclear pores. Mutant pores were significantly impaired
 in transport receptor-mediated docking of proteins with a nuclear
 localization signal or M9 import signal and showed weak nuclear import
 of such substrates. In contrast, the ability of mutant pores to import
 ribosomal protein L23a and spliceosome protein U1A appeared intact.
 These observations show that NUP98 disruption selectively impairs
 discrete protein import pathways and support the idea that transport of
 distinct import complexes through the nuclear pore complex is mediated
 by specific subsets of nucleoporins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To visualize Ca2+-dependent protein–protein
 interactions in living cells by fluorescence readouts, we used a
 circularly permuted green fluorescent protein (cpGFP), in which the
 amino and carboxyl portions had been interchanged and reconnected by a
 short spacer between the original termini. The cpGFP was fused to
 calmodulin and its target peptide, M13. The chimeric
 protein, which we have named “pericam,” was fluorescent and its
 spectral properties changed reversibly with the amount of
 Ca2+, probably because of the interaction between
 calmodulin and M13 leading to an alteration of the
 environment surrounding the chromophore. Three types of pericam were
 obtained by mutating several amino acids adjacent to the chromophore.
 Of these, “flash-pericam” became brighter with Ca2+,
 whereas “inverse-pericam” dimmed. On the other hand,
 “ratiometric-pericam” had an excitation wavelength changing in a
 Ca2+-dependent manner. All of the pericams expressed in
 HeLa cells were able to monitor free Ca2+ dynamics, such as
 Ca2+ oscillations in the cytosol and the nucleus.
 Ca2+ imaging using high-speed confocal line-scanning
 microscopy and a flash-pericam allowed to detect the free propagation
 of Ca2+ ions across the nuclear envelope. Then, free
 Ca2+ concentrations in the nucleus and mitochondria were
 simultaneously measured by using ratiometric-pericams having
 appropriate localization signals, revealing that extra-mitochondrial
 Ca2+ transients caused rapid changes in the concentration
 of mitochondrial Ca2+. Finally, a “split-pericam” was
 made by deleting the linker in the flash-pericam. The
 Ca2+-dependent interaction between calmodulin
 and M13 in HeLa cells was monitored by the association of the two
 halves of GFP, neither of which was fluorescent by itself.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interferon (IFN) treatment induces tyrosine phosphorylation and
 nuclear translocation of Stat1 (signal transducer and activator of
 transcription) to activate or repress transcription. We report here
 that a member of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT family, PIASy,
 is a transcriptional corepressor of Stat1. IFN treatment triggers the
 in vivo interaction of Stat1 with PIASy, which represses
 Stat1-mediated gene activation without blocking the DNA binding
 activity of Stat1. An LXXLL coregulator signature motif located near
 the NH2 terminus of PIASy, although not involved in the
 PIASy–Stat1 interaction, is required for the transrepression activity
 of PIASy. Our studies identify PIASy as a transcriptional corepressor
 of Stat1 and suggest that different PIAS proteins may repress
 STAT-mediated gene activation through distinct mechanisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Nup98 gene codes for several alternatively spliced protein
 precursors. Two in vitro translated and
 autoproteolytically cleaved precursors yielded heterodimers of
 Nup98-6kDa peptide and Nup98-Nup96. TPR (translocated promoter region)
 is a protein that forms filamentous structures extending from nuclear
 pore complexes (NPCs) to intranuclear sites. We found that in
 vitro translated TPR bound to in vitro
 translated Nup98 and, via Nup98, to Nup96. Double-immunofluorescence
 microscopy with antibodies to TPR and Nup98 showed colocalization. In
 confocal sections the nucleolus itself was only weakly stained but
 there was intensive perinucleolar staining. Striking spike-like
 structures emanated from this perinucleolar ring and attenuated into
 thinner structures as they extended to the nuclear periphery. This
 characteristic staining pattern of the TPR network was considerably
 enhanced when a myc-tagged pyruvate kinase-6kDa fusion protein was
 overexpressed in HeLa cells. Double-immunoelectron microscopy of these
 cells using anti-myc and anti-TPR antibodies and secondary gold-coupled
 antibodies yielded row-like arrangements of gold particles. Taken
 together, the immunolocalization data support previous electron
 microscopical data, suggesting that TPR forms filaments that extend
 from the NPC to the nucleolus. We discuss the possible implications of
 the association of Nup98 with this intranuclear TPR network for an
 intranuclear phase of transport.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Techniques of tissue engineering and cell and molecular biology
 were used to create a biodegradable scaffold for transfected cells to
 produce complex proteins. Mullerian Inhibiting Substance (MIS) causes
 regression of Mullerian ducts in the mammalian embryo. MIS also causes
 regression in vitro of ovarian tumor cell lines and
 primary cells from ovarian carcinomas, which derive from Mullerian
 structures. In a strategy to circumvent the complicated purification
 protocols for MIS, Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with the
 human MIS gene were seeded onto biodegradable polymers of polyglycolic
 acid fibers and secretion of MIS confirmed. The polymer-cell graft was
 implanted into the right ovarian pedicle of severe combined
 immunodeficient mice. Serum MIS in the mice rose to supraphysiologic
 levels over time. One week after implantation of the polymer-cell
 graft, IGROV-1 human tumors were implanted under the renal capsule of
 the left kidney. Growth of the IGROV-1 tumors was significantly
 inhibited in the animals with a polymer-cell graft of MIS-producing
 cells, compared with controls. This novel MIS delivery system could
 have broader applications for other inhibitory agents not amenable to
 efficient purification and provides in vivo evidence for
 a role of MIS in the treatment of ovarian cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Differential compartmentalization of signaling molecules in
 cells and tissues is being recognized as an important mechanism for
 regulating the specificity of signal transduction pathways. A kinase
 anchoring proteins (AKAPs) direct the subcellular localization of
 protein kinase A (PKA) by binding to its regulatory (R) subunits. Dual
 specific AKAPs (D-AKAPs) interact with both RI and RII. A 372-residue
 fragment of mouse D-AKAP2 with a 40-residue C-terminal PKA binding
 region and a putative regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) domain was
 previously identified by means of a yeast two-hybrid screen. Here, we
 report the cloning of full-length human D-AKAP2 (662 residues) with an
 additional putative RGS domain, and the corresponding mouse protein
 less the first two exons (617 residues). Expression of D-AKAP2 was
 characterized by using mouse tissue extracts. Full-length D-AKAP2 from
 various tissues shows different molecular weights, possibly because of
 alternative splicing or posttranslational modifications. The cloned
 human gene product has a molecular weight similar to one of the
 prominent mouse proteins. In vivo association of D-AKAP2
 with PKA in mouse brain was demonstrated by using cAMP agarose
 pull-down assay. Subcellular localization for endogenous
 mouse, rat, and human D-AKAP2 was determined by immunocytochemistry,
 immunohistochemistry, and tissue fractionation. D-AKAP2 from all three
 species is highly enriched in mitochondria. The mitochondrial
 localization and the presence of RGS domains in D-AKAP2 may have
 important implications for its function in PKA and G protein signal
 transduction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We introduce a quantitative framework for assessing the generation
 of crossovers in DNA shuffling experiments. The approach uses free
 energy calculations and complete sequence information to model the
 annealing process. Statistics obtained for the annealing events then
 are combined with a reassembly algorithm to infer crossover allocation
 in the reassembled sequences. The fraction of reassembled sequences
 containing zero, one, two, or more crossovers and the probability that
 a given nucleotide position in a reassembled sequence is the site of a
 crossover event are estimated. Comparisons of the predictions against
 experimental data for five example systems demonstrate good agreement
 despite the fact that no adjustable parameters are used. An in
 silico case study of a set of 12 subtilases examines the effect
 of fragmentation length, annealing temperature, sequence identity and
 number of shuffled sequences on the number, type, and distribution of
 crossovers. A computational verification of crossover aggregation in
 regions of near-perfect sequence identity and the presence of
 synergistic reassembly in family DNA shuffling is obtained.
DOC DONE!Abstract
BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers are at increased
 risk for both breast and ovarian cancer, but estimates of lifetime risk
 vary widely, suggesting their penetrance is modified by other genetic
 and/or environmental factors. The BRCA1 and BRCA2 proteins function
 in DNA repair in conjunction with RAD51. A preliminary report suggested
 that a single nucleotide polymorphism in the 5′ untranslated region of
 RAD51 (135C/G) increases breast cancer risk in
 BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers. To investigate
 this effect we studied 257 female Ashkenazi Jewish carriers of one of
 the common BRCA1 (185delAG,
 5382insC) or BRCA2 (6174delT)
 mutations. Of this group, 164 were affected with breast and/or
 ovarian cancer and 93 were unaffected. RAD51 genotyping
 was performed on all subjects. Among BRCA1 carriers,
 RAD51-135C frequency was similar in
 healthy and affected women [6.1% (3 of 49) and 9.9% (12 of 121),
 respectively], and RAD-135C did not influence age of cancer diagnosis
 [Hazard ratio (HR) = 1.18 for disease in
 RAD51-135C heterozygotes, not
 significant]. However, in BRCA2 carriers,
 RAD51-135C heterozygote frequency in
 affected women was 17.4% (8 of 46) compared with 4.9% (2 of 41) in
 unaffected women (P = 0.07). Survival analysis in
 BRCA2 carriers showed
 RAD51-135C increased risk of breast
 and/or ovarian cancer with an HR of 4.0 [95% confidence interval
 1.6–9.8, P = 0.003]. This effect was largely due
 to increased breast cancer risk with an HR of 3.46 (95% confidence
 interval 1.3–9.2, P = 0.01) for breast cancer in
 BRCA2 carriers who were
 RAD51-135C heterozygotes.
 RAD51 status did not affect ovarian cancer risk. These
 results show RAD51-135C is a clinically
 significant modifier of BRCA2 penetrance, specifically
 in raising breast cancer risk at younger ages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The M78 protein of murine cytomegalovirus exhibits sequence
 features of a G protein-coupled receptor. It is synthesized with early
 kinetics, it becomes partially colocalized with Golgi markers, and it
 is incorporated into viral particles. We have constructed a viral
 substitution mutant, SMsubM78, which lacks most of the
 M78 ORF. The mutant produces a reduced yield in cultured 10.1
 fibroblast and IC21 macrophage cell lines. The defect is multiplicity
 dependent and greater in the macrophage cell line. Consistent with its
 growth defect in cultured cells, the mutant exhibits reduced
 pathogenicity in mice, generating less infectious progeny than
 wild-type virus in all organs assayed. SMsubM78 fails to
 efficiently activate accumulation of the viral m123 immediate-early
 mRNA in infected macrophages. M78 facilitates the accumulation of the
 immediate-early mRNA in cycloheximide-treated cells, arguing that it
 acts in the absence of de novo protein synthesis. We
 conclude that the M78 G protein-coupled receptor homologue is delivered
 to cells as a constituent of the virion, and it acts to facilitate the
 accumulation of immediate-early mRNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA ligase IV (Lig4) and the DNA-dependent protein kinase
 (DNA-PK) function in nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ). However,
 although Lig4 deficiency causes late embryonic lethality, deficiency in
 DNA-PK subunits (Ku70, Ku80, and DNA-PKcs) does not. Here we
 demonstrate that, similar to p53 deficiency,
 ataxia-telangiectasia-mutated (ATM) gene deficiency rescues the
 embryonic lethality and neuronal apoptosis, but not impaired
 lymphocyte development, associated with Lig4 deficiency. However, in
 contrast to p53 deficiency, ATM deficiency enhances deleterious effects
 of Lig4 deficiency on growth potential of embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs)
 and genomic instability in both MEFs and cultured progenitor
 lymphocytes, demonstrating significant differences in the
 interplay of p53 vs. ATM with respect to NHEJ. Finally, in dramatic
 contrast to effects on Lig4 deficiency, ATM deficiency causes early
 embryonic lethality in Ku- or DNA-PKcs-deficient mice, providing
 evidence for an NHEJ-independent role for the DNA-PK holoenzyme.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Candida albicans is a diploid fungus that has become
 a medically important opportunistic pathogen in immunocompromised
 individuals. We have sequenced the C. albicans genome to
 10.4-fold coverage and performed a comparative genomic analysis between
 C. albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae
 with the objective of assessing whether Candida
 possesses a genetic repertoire that could support a complete sexual
 cycle. Analyzing over 500 genes important for sexual differentiation in
 S. cerevisiae, we find many homologues of genes that are
 implicated in the initiation of meiosis, chromosome recombination, and
 the formation of synaptonemal complexes. However, others are striking
 in their absence. C. albicans seems to have homologues
 of all of the elements of a functional pheromone response pathway
 involved in mating in S. cerevisiae but lacks many
 homologues of S. cerevisiae genes for meiosis. Other
 meiotic gene homologues in organisms ranging from filamentous fungi to
 Drosophila melanogaster and
 Caenorhabditis elegans were also found
 in the C. albicans genome, suggesting potential
 alternative mechanisms of genetic exchange.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DPC4 is known to mediate signals initiated by type
 β transforming growth factor (TGFβ) as well as by other TGFβ
 superfamily ligands such as activin and BMP (bone morphogenic
 proteins), but mutational surveys of such non-TGFβ receptors have
 been negative to date. Here we describe the gene structure and novel
 somatic mutations of the activin type I receptor,
 ACVR1B, in pancreatic cancer. ACVR1B has
 not been described previously as a mutated tumor-suppressor gene.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cryptococcus neoformans STE12α, a homologue of
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae STE12, exists only in
 MATα strains. We identified another
 STE12 homologue, STE12a, which is
 MATa specific. As in the case with
 Δste12α, the mating efficiency for
 Δste12a was reduced significantly. The
 Δste12a strains surprisingly still
 mated with Δste12α strains. In
 MATα strains, STE12a functionally
 complemented STE12α for mating efficacy, haploid
 fruiting, and regulation of capsule size in the mouse brain.
 Furthermore, when STE12a was replaced with two copies of
 STE12α, the resulting MATa strain
 produced hyphae on filament agar. STE12a regulates mRNA
 levels of several genes that are important for virulence including
 CNLAC1 and CAP genes.
 STE12a also modulates enzyme activities of phospholipase
 and superoxide dismutase. Importantly, deletion of
 STE12a markedly reduced the virulence in mice, as is the
 case with STE12α. Brain smears of mice infected with
 the Δste12a strain showed yeast cells
 with a considerable reduction in capsule size compared with those
 infected with STE12a strains. When the disrupted locus
 of ste12a was replaced with a wild-type
 STE12a gene, both in vivo and in
 vitro mutant phenotypes were reversed. These results suggest
 that STE12a and STE12α have similar
 functions, and that the mating type of the cells influences the alleles
 to exert their biological effects. C. neoformans, thus,
 is the first fungal species that contains a mating-type-specific
 STE12 homologue in each mating type. Our results
 demonstrate that mating-type-specific genes are not only important for
 saprobic reproduction but also play an important role for survival of
 the organism in host tissue.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The feasibility of using carbohydrate-based vaccines for the
 immunotherapy of cancer is being actively explored at the present time.
 Although a number of clinical trials have already been conducted with
 glycoconjugate vaccines, the optimal design and composition of the
 vaccines has yet to be determined. Among the candidate antigens being
 examined is Lewisy (Ley), a blood group-related
 antigen that is overexpressed on the majority of human carcinomas.
 Using Ley as a model for specificity, we have examined the
 role of epitope clustering, carrier structure, and adjuvant on the
 immunogenicity of Ley conjugates in mice. A
 glycolipopeptide containing a cluster of three contiguous
 Ley-serine epitopes and the Pam3Cys
 immunostimulating moiety was found to be superior to a similar
 construct containing only one Ley-serine epitope in
 eliciting antitumor cell antibodies. Because only IgM antibodies were
 produced by this vaccine, the effect on immunogenicity of coupling the
 glycopeptide to keyhole limpet hemocyanin was examined; although both
 IgM and IgG antibodies were formed, the antibodies reacted only with
 the immunizing structure. Reexamination of the clustered
 Ley-serine Pam3Cys conjugate with the adjuvant
 QS-21 resulted in the identification of both IgG and IgM antibodies
 reacting with tumor cells, thus demonstrating the feasibility of an
 entirely synthetic carbohydrate-based anticancer vaccine in an animal
 model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The carbohydrate antigen globo H commonly found on breast cancer
 cells is a potential target for vaccine therapy. The objectives of this
 trial were to determine the toxicity and immunogenicity of three
 synthetic globo H-keyhole limpet hemocyanin conjugates plus the
 immunologic adjuvant QS-21. Twenty-seven metastatic breast cancer
 patients received five vaccinations each. The vaccine was well
 tolerated, and no definite differences were observed among the three
 formulations. Serologic analyses demonstrated the generation of IgM
 antibody titers in most patients, with minimal IgG antibody
 stimulation. There was significant binding of IgM antibodies to MCF-7
 tumor cells in 16 patients, whereas IgG antibody reactivity was
 observed in a few patients. There was evidence of complement-dependent
 cytotoxicity in several patients. Affinity column purification
 supported the specificity of IgM antibodies for globo H. On the basis
 of these data, globo H will constitute one component of a polyvalent
 vaccine for evaluation in high-risk breast cancer patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Graft loss from chronic rejection has become the major
 obstacle to the long-term success of whole organ transplantation. In
 cardiac allografts, chronic rejection is manifested as a diffuse and
 accelerated form of arteriosclerosis, termed cardiac allograft
 vasculopathy. It has been suggested that T-cell recognition of
 processed alloantigens (allopeptides) presented by recipient
 antigen-presenting cells through the indirect pathway of
 allorecognition plays a critical role in the development and
 progression of chronic rejection. However, definitive preclinical
 evidence to support this hypothesis is lacking. To examine the role of
 indirect allorecognition in a clinically relevant large animal model of
 cardiac allograft vasculopathy, we immunized MHC inbred miniature swine
 with synthetic polymorphic peptides spanning the α1
 domain of an allogeneic donor-derived swine leukocyte antigen class I
 gene. Pigs immunized with swine leukocyte antigen class I allopeptides
 showed in vitro proliferative responses and in
 vivo delayed-type hypersensitivity responses to the allogeneic
 peptides. Donor MHC class I disparate hearts transplanted into
 peptide-immunized cyclosporine-treated pigs not only rejected faster
 than unimmunized cyclosporine-treated controls (mean survival time
 = 5.5 +/−1.7 vs. 54.7 +/−3.8 days, P <
 0.001), but they also developed obstructive fibroproliferative coronary
 artery lesions much earlier than unimmunized controls (<9 vs. >30
 days). These results definitively link indirect allorecognition and
 cardiac allograft vasculopathy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Serological expression cloning of antigens eliciting a humoral
 immune response to a syngeneic mouse sarcoma identified
 pem (mouse placenta and embryonic expression gene) as a
 new member of the cancer/testis family. To identify the human
 homologue of pem, mouse pem sequences and
 pem-related expressed sequence tags from human testis
 were used as PCR primers for amplification using human testis cDNA.
 However, rather than pem, another gene, designated
 OY-TES-1, was isolated and found to be the human
 homologue of proacrosin binding protein sp32 precursor originally
 identified in mouse, guinea pig, and pig. OY-TES-1 maps
 to chromosome 12p12-p13 and contains 10 exons. Southern blot analysis
 suggests the presence of two OY-TES-1-related genes in
 the human genome. In normal tissues, OY-TES-1 mRNA was
 expressed only in testis, whereas in malignant tissues, a variable
 proportion of a wide array of cancers, including bladder, breast, lung,
 liver, and colon cancers, expressed OY-TES-1.
 Serological survey of 362 cancer patients with a range of different
 cancers showed antibody to OY-TES-1 in 25 patients. No OY-TES-1 sera
 reactivity was found in 20 normal individuals. These findings indicate
 that OY-TES-1 is an additional member of the cancer/testis family of
 antigens and that OY-TES-1 is immunogenic in humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD1 is an MHC class I-like antigen-presenting molecule consisting
 of a heavy chain and β2-microglobulin light chain. The
 in vitro refolding of synthetic MHC class I molecules
 has always required the presence of ligand. We report here the use of a
 folding method using an immobilized chaperone fragment, a protein
 disulphide isomerase, and a peptidyl-prolyl
 cis-trans isomerase (oxidative refolding
 chromatography) for the fast and efficient assembly of ligand-free and
 ligand-associated CD1a and CD1b, starting with material synthesized in
 Escherichia coli. The results suggest that “empty”
 MHC class I-like molecules can assemble and remain stable at
 physiological temperatures in the absence of ligand. The use of
 oxidative refolding chromatography thus is extended to encompass
 complex multisubunit proteins and specifically to members of the
 extensive, functionally diverse and important immunoglobulin supergene
 family of proteins, including those for which a ligand has yet to be
 identified.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD1 molecules are specialized in presenting lipids to T
 lymphocytes, but identification and isolation of CD1-restricted
 lipidspecific T cells has been hampered by the lack of reliable
 and sensitive techniques. We here report the construction of
 CD1d–glycolipid tetramers from fully denatured human CD1d molecules by
 using the technique of oxidative refolding chromatography. We
 demonstrate that chaperone- and foldase-assisted refolding of denatured
 CD1d molecules and β2-microglobulin in the presence of
 synthetic lipids is a rapid method for the generation of functional and
 specific CD1d tetramers, which unlike previously published protocols
 ensures isolation of CD1d tetramers loaded with a single lipid species.
 The use of human CD1d–α-galactosylceramide tetramers for ex
 vivo staining of peripheral blood lymphocytes and intrahepatic
 T cells from patients with viral liver cirrhosis allowed for the first
 time simultaneous analysis of frequency and specificity of natural
 killer T cells in human clinical samples. Application of this protocol
 to other members of the CD1 family will provide powerful tools to
 investigate lipid-specific T cell immune responses in health and in
 disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although DNA vaccines have been shown to elicit potent immune
 responses in animal models, initial clinical trials in humans have been
 disappointing, highlighting a need to optimize their immunogenicity.
 Naked DNA vaccines are usually administered either i.m. or
 intradermally. The current study shows that immunization with naked DNA
 by direct injection into a peripheral lymph node enhances
 immunogenicity by 100- to 1,000-fold, inducing strong and biologically
 relevant CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses. Because
 injection directly into a lymph node is a rapid and easy procedure in
 humans, these results have important clinical implications for DNA
 vaccination.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-18 can be considered a proinflammatory cytokine mediating
 disease as well as an immunostimulatory cytokine that is important for
 host defense against infection and cancer. The high-affinity,
 constitutively expressed, and circulating IL-18 binding protein
 (IL-18BP), which competes with cell surface receptors for IL-18 and
 neutralizes IL-18 activity, may act as a natural antiinflammatory as
 well as immunosuppressive molecule. In the present studies, the IL-18
 precursor caspase-1 cleavage site was changed to a factor Xa site, and,
 after expression in Escherichia coli, mature IL-18 was
 generated by factor Xa cleavage. Mature IL-18 generated by factor Xa
 cleavage was fully active. Single point mutations in the mature IL-18
 peptide were made, and the biological activities of the wild-type (WT)
 IL-18 were compared with those of the mutants. Mutants E42A and K89A
 exhibited 2-fold increased activity compared with WT IL-18. A double
 mutant, E42A plus K89A, exhibited 4-fold greater activity.
 Unexpectedly, IL-18BP failed to neutralize the double mutant E42A plus
 K89A compared with WT IL-18. The K89A mutant was intermediate in being
 neutralized by IL-18BP, whereas neutralization of the E42A mutant was
 comparable to that in the WT IL-18. The identification of E42 and K89
 in the mature IL-18 peptide is consistent with previous modeling
 studies of IL-18 binding to IL-18BP and explains the unusually high
 affinity of IL-18BP for IL-18.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To clarify the role of Peyer's patches in oral tolerance
 induction, BALB/c mice were treated in utero with
 lymphotoxin β-receptor Ig fusion protein to generate mice lacking
 Peyer's patches. When these Peyer's patch-null mice were fed 25 mg of
 ovalbumin (OVA) before systemic immunization, OVA-specific IgG Ab
 responses in serum and spleen were seen, in marked contrast to low
 responses in OVA-fed normal mice. Further, high T-cell-proliferative-
 and delayed-type hypersensitivity responses were seen in Peyer's
 patch-null mice given oral OVA before systemic challenge. Higher levels
 of CD4+ T-cell-derived IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10
 syntheses were noted in Peyer's patch-null mice fed OVA, whereas
 OVA-fed normal mice had suppressed cytokine levels. In contrast, oral
 administration of trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) to Peyer's
 patch-null mice resulted in reduced TNBS-specific serum Abs and splenic
 B cell antitrinitrophenyl Ab-forming cell responses after skin painting
 with picryl chloride. Further, when delayed-type hypersensitivity and
 splenic T cell proliferative responses were examined, Peyer's
 patch-null mice fed TNBS were unresponsive to hapten. Peyer's
 patch-null mice fed trinitrophenyl-OVA failed to induce systemic
 unresponsiveness to hapten or protein. These findings show that
 organized Peyer's patches are required for oral tolerance to proteins,
 whereas haptens elicit systemic unresponsiveness via the intestinal
 epithelial cell barrier.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The testis is the main source of Fas ligand (FasL) mRNA in rodents;
 it is generally believed that this molecule, expressed on bordering
 somatic Sertoli cells, bestows an immune-privileged status in the
 testis by eliminating infiltrating inflammatory Fas-bearing leukocytes.
 Our results demonstrate that the attribution of testicular expression
 of FasL to Sertoli cells is erroneous and that FasL transcription
 instead occurs in meiotic and postmeiotic germ cells, whereas the
 protein is only displayed on mature spermatozoa. These findings point
 to a significant role of the Fas system in the biology of mammalian
 reproduction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Ca2+-calmodulin-activated Ser/Thr
 protein phosphatase calcineurin and the downstream transcriptional
 effectors of calcineurin, nuclear factor of activated T cells, have
 been implicated in the hypertrophic response of the myocardium.
 Recently, the calcineurin inhibitory agents cyclosporine A and FK506
 have been extensively used to evaluate the importance of this signaling
 pathway in rodent models of cardiac hypertrophy. However, pharmacologic
 approaches have rendered equivocal results necessitating more specific
 or genetic-based inhibitory strategies. In this regard, we have
 generated Tg mice expressing the calcineurin inhibitory domains of
 Cain/Cabin-1 and A-kinase anchoring protein 79 specifically in the
 heart. ΔCain and ΔA-kinase-anchoring protein Tg mice demonstrated
 reduced cardiac calcineurin activity and reduced hypertrophy in
 response to catecholamine infusion or pressure overload. In a second
 approach, adenoviral-mediated gene transfer of ΔCain was
 performed in the adult rat myocardium to evaluate the effectiveness of
 an acute intervention and any potential species dependency. ΔCain
 adenoviral gene transfer inhibited cardiac calcineurin activity and
 reduced hypertrophy in response to pressure overload without reducing
 aortic pressure. These results provide genetic evidence implicating
 calcineurin as an important mediator of the cardiac hypertrophic
 response in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Signaling events controlled by calcineurin promote cardiac
 hypertrophy, but the degree to which such pathways are required to
 transduce the effects of various hypertrophic stimuli remains
 uncertain. In particular, the administration of immunosuppressive drugs
 that inhibit calcineurin has inconsistent effects in blocking cardiac
 hypertrophy in various animal models. As an alternative approach to
 inhibiting calcineurin in the hearts of intact animals, transgenic mice
 were engineered to overexpress a human cDNA encoding the
 calcineurin-binding protein, myocyte-enriched calcineurin-interacting
 protein-1 (hMCIP1) under control of the cardiac-specific, α-myosin
 heavy chain promoter (α-MHC). In unstressed mice, forced expression
 of hMCIP1 resulted in a 5–10% decline in cardiac mass relative to
 wild-type littermates, but otherwise produced no apparent structural or
 functional abnormalities. However, cardiac-specific expression of
 hMCIP1 inhibited cardiac hypertrophy, reinduction of fetal gene
 expression, and progression to dilated cardiomyopathy that otherwise
 result from expression of a constitutively active form of calcineurin.
 Expression of the hMCIP1 transgene also inhibited hypertrophic
 responses to β-adrenergic receptor stimulation or exercise training.
 These results demonstrate that levels of hMCIP1 producing no apparent
 deleterious effects in cells of the normal heart are sufficient to
 inhibit several forms of cardiac hypertrophy, and suggest an important
 role for calcineurin signaling in diverse forms of cardiac hypertrophy.
 The future development of measures to increase expression or activity
 of MCIP proteins selectively within the heart may have clinical value
 for prevention of heart failure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cross-sectional positron emission tomography (PET) studies find
 that cognitively normal carriers of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) ɛ4
 allele, a common Alzheimer's susceptibility gene, have abnormally low
 measurements of the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (CMRgl) in the
 same regions as patients with Alzheimer's dementia. In this article,
 we characterize longitudinal CMRgl declines in cognitively normal ɛ4
 heterozygotes, estimate the power of PET to test the efficacy of
 treatments to attenuate these declines in 2 years, and consider how
 this paradigm could be used to efficiently test the potential of
 candidate therapies for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease. We
 studied 10 cognitively normal ɛ4 heterozygotes and 15 ɛ4
 noncarriers 50–63 years of age with a reported family history of
 Alzheimer's dementia before and after an interval of approximately 2
 years. The ɛ4 heterozygotes had significant CMRgl declines in the
 vicinity of temporal, posterior cingulate, and prefrontal cortex, basal
 forebrain, parahippocampal gyrus, and thalamus, and these declines were
 significantly greater than those in the ɛ4 noncarriers. In testing
 candidate primary prevention therapies, we estimate that between 50 and
 115 cognitively normal ɛ4 heterozygotes are needed per active and
 placebo treatment group to detect a 25% attenuation in these CMRgl
 declines with 80% power and P = 0.005 in 2 years.
 Assuming these CMRgl declines are related to the predisposition to
 Alzheimer's dementia, this study provides a paradigm for testing the
 potential of treatments to prevent the disorder without having to
 study thousands of research subjects or wait many years to
 determine whether or when treated individuals develop symptoms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We performed a genome-wide analysis of gene expression in primary
 human CD15+ myeloid progenitor cells. By using the serial
 analysis of gene expression (SAGE) technique, we obtained quantitative
 information for the expression of 37,519 unique SAGE-tag sequences. Of
 these unique tags, (i) 25% were detected at high and
 intermediate levels, whereas 75% were present as single copies,
 (ii) 53% of the tags matched known expressed sequences,
 34% of which were matched to more than one known expressed sequence,
 and (iii) 47% of the tags had no matches and represent
 potentially novel genes. The correct genes were confirmed by
 application of the generation of longer cDNA fragments from SAGE tags
 for gene identification (GLGI) technique for high-copy tags with
 multiple matches. A set of genes known to be important in myeloid
 differentiation were expressed at various levels and used different
 spliced forms. This study provides a normal baseline for comparison of
 gene expression in myeloid diseases. The strategy of using SAGE and
 GLGI techniques in this study has broad applications to the genome-wide
 identification of expressed genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The tumor suppressor gene FHIT spans a common
 fragile site and is highly susceptible to environmental carcinogens.
 FHIT inactivation and loss of expression is found in a
 large fraction of premaligant and malignant lesions. In this study, we
 were able to inhibit tumor development by oral gene transfer, using
 adenoviral or adenoassociated viral vectors expressing the human
 FHIT gene, in heterozygous
 Fhit+/− knockout mice, that are prone to
 tumor development after carcinogen exposure. We therefore suggest that
 FHIT gene therapy could be a novel clinical approach not
 only in treatment of early stages of cancer, but also in prevention of
 human cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Independent studies indicate that expression of sialylated
 fucosylated mucins by human carcinomas portends a poor prognosis
 because of enhanced metastatic spread of tumor cells, that carcinoma
 metastasis in mice is facilitated by formation of tumor cell complexes
 with blood platelets, and that metastasis can be attenuated by a
 background of P-selectin deficiency or by treatment with heparin. The
 effects of heparin are not primarily due to its anticoagulant action.
 Other explanations have been suggested but not proven. Here, we bring
 together all these unexplained and seemingly disparate observations,
 showing that heparin treatment attenuates tumor metastasis in mice by
 inhibiting P-selectin-mediated interactions of platelets with
 carcinoma cell-surface mucin ligands. Selective removal of tumor mucin
 P-selectin ligands, a single heparin dose, or a background of
 P-selectin deficiency each reduces tumor cell-platelet interactions
 in vitro and in vivo. Although each of
 these maneuvers reduced the in vivo interactions for
 only a few hours, all markedly reduce long-term organ colonization by
 tumor cells. Three-dimensional reconstructions by using
 volume-rendering software show that each situation interferes with
 formation of the platelet “cloak” around tumor cells while
 permitting an increased interaction of monocytes (macrophage
 precursors) with the malignant cells. Finally, we show that human
 P-selectin is even more sensitive to heparin than mouse P-selectin,
 giving significant inhibition at concentrations that are in the
 clinically acceptable range. We suggest that heparin therapy for
 metastasis prevention in humans be revisited, with these mechanistic
 paradigms in mind.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cyclooxygenase (COX) product, prostacyclin (PGI2),
 inhibits platelet activation and vascular smooth-muscle cell migration
 and proliferation. Biochemically selective inhibition of COX-2 reduces
 PGI2 biosynthesis substantially in humans. Because deletion
 of the PGI2 receptor accelerates atherogenesis in the
 fat-fed low density lipoprotein receptor knockout mouse, we wished to
 determine whether selective inhibition of COX-2 would accelerate
 atherogenesis in this model. To address this hypothesis, we used dosing
 with nimesulide, which inhibited COX-2 ex vivo,
 depressed urinary 2,3 dinor 6-keto PGF1α by approximately
 60% but had no effect on thromboxane formation by platelets, which
 only express COX-1. By contrast, the isoform nonspecific inhibitor,
 indomethacin, suppressed platelet function and thromboxane formation
 ex vivo and in vivo, coincident with
 effects on PGI2 biosynthesis indistinguishable from
 nimesulide. Indomethacin reduced the extent of atherosclerosis by
 55 ± 4%, whereas nimesulide failed to increase the rate of
 atherogenesis. Despite their divergent effects on atherogenesis, both
 drugs depressed two indices of systemic inflammation, soluble
 intracellular adhesion molecule-1, and monocyte chemoattractant
 protein-1 to a similar but incomplete degree. Neither drug altered
 serum lipids and the marked increase in vascular expression of COX-2
 during atherogenesis. Accelerated progression of atherosclerosis is
 unlikely during chronic intake of specific COX-2 inhibitors.
 Furthermore, evidence that COX-1-derived prostanoids contribute to
 atherogenesis suggests that controlled evaluation of the effects of
 nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and/or aspirin on plaque
 progression in humans is timely.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1; EC 2.4.2.30) is an abundant
 nuclear enzyme, activated by DNA strand breaks to attach up to 200
 ADP-ribose groups to nuclear proteins. As retroviral infection requires
 integrase-catalyzed DNA strand breaks, we examined infection of
 pseudotyped HIV type I in fibroblasts from mice with a targeted
 deletion of PARP-1. Viral infection is almost totally abolished in
 PARP-1 knockout fibroblasts. This protection from infection reflects
 prevention of viral integration into the host genome. These findings
 suggest a potential for PARP inhibitors in therapy of HIV type I
 infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The pregnane X receptor (PXR) is the molecular target for catatoxic
 steroids such as pregnenolone 16α-carbonitrile (PCN), which induce
 cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) expression and protect the
 body from harmful chemicals. In this study, we demonstrate that PXR is
 activated by the toxic bile acid lithocholic acid (LCA) and its 3-keto
 metabolite. Furthermore, we show that PXR regulates the expression of
 genes involved in the biosynthesis, transport, and metabolism of bile
 acids including cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (Cyp7a1)
 and the Na+-independent organic anion transporter 2
 (Oatp2). Finally, we demonstrate that activation of PXR
 protects against severe liver damage induced by LCA. Based on these
 data, we propose that PXR serves as a physiological sensor of LCA, and
 coordinately regulates gene expression to reduce the concentrations of
 this toxic bile acid. These findings suggest that PXR agonists may
 prove useful in the treatment of human cholestatic liver disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hepatic hydroxylation is an essential step in the metabolism and
 excretion of bile acids and is necessary to avoid pathologic conditions
 such as cholestasis and liver damage. In this report, we demonstrate
 that the human xenobiotic receptor SXR (steroid and xenobiotic
 receptor) and its rodent homolog PXR (pregnane X receptor) serve as
 functional bile acid receptors in both cultured cells and animals. In
 particular, the secondary bile acid derivative lithocholic acid (LCA)
 is highly hepatotoxic and, as we show here, a metabolic substrate for
 CYP3A hydroxylation. By using combinations of knockout and transgenic
 animals, we show that activation of SXR/PXR is necessary and
 sufficient to both induce CYP3A enzymes and confer resistance to
 toxicity by LCA, as well as other xenotoxicants such as tribromoethanol
 and zoxazolamine. Therefore, we establish SXR and PXR as bile acid
 receptors and a role for the xenobiotic response in the detoxification
 of bile acids.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Telomerase inhibition has been touted as a novel cancer-selective
 therapeutic goal based on the observation of high telomerase levels in
 most cancers and the importance of telomere maintenance in long-term
 cellular growth and survival. Here, the impact of telomere dysfunction
 on chemotherapeutic responses was assessed in normal and neoplastic
 cells derived from telomerase RNA null (mTERC−/−) mice.
 Telomere dysfunction, rather than telomerase per se, was
 found to be the principal determinant governing chemosensitivity
 specifically to agents that induced double-stranded DNA breaks (DSB).
 Enhanced chemosensitivity in telomere dysfunctional cells was linked to
 therapy-induced fragmentation and multichromosomal fusions, whereas
 telomerase reconstitution restored genomic integrity and
 chemoresistance. Loss of p53 function muted the cytotoxic effects of
 DSB-inducing agents in cells with telomere dysfunction. Together, these
 results point to the combined use of DSB-inducing agents and telomere
 maintenance inhibition as an effective anticancer therapeutic approach
 particularly in cells with intact p53-dependent checkpoint responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Herein we report the clinical, histopathological, and molecular
 features of a cancer syndrome with predisposition to uterine leiomyomas
 and papillary renal cell carcinoma. The studied kindred included 11
 family members with uterine leiomyomas and two with uterine
 leiomyosarcoma. Seven individuals had a history of cutaneous nodules,
 two of which were confirmed to be cutaneous leiomyomatosis. The four
 kidney cancer cases occurred in young (33- to 48-year-old) females and
 displayed a unique natural history. All these kidney cancers displayed
 a distinct papillary histology and presented as unilateral solitary
 lesions that had metastasized at the time of diagnosis. Genetic-marker
 analysis mapped the predisposition gene to chromosome 1q. Losses of the
 normal chromosome 1q were observed in tumors that had occurred in the
 kindred, including a uterine leiomyoma. Moreover, the observed
 histological features were used as a tool to diagnose a second kindred
 displaying the phenotype. We have shown that predisposition to uterine
 leiomyomas and papillary renal cell cancer can be inherited dominantly
 through the hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer
 (HLRCC) gene. The HLRCC gene maps to
 chromosome 1q and is likely to be a tumor suppressor. Clinical,
 histopathological, and molecular tools are now available for accurate
 detection and diagnosis of this cancer syndrome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Müllerian Inhibiting Substance (MIS) expression is inversely
 proportional to the serum concentration of testosterone in males after
 birth and in vitro studies have shown that MIS can lower
 testosterone production by Leydig cells. Also, mice overexpressing MIS
 exhibited Leydig cell hypoplasia and lower levels of serum
 testosterone, but it is not clear whether this is a result of MIS
 affecting the development of Leydig cells or their capacity to produce
 testosterone. To examine the hypothesis that MIS treatment will result
 in decreased testosterone production by mature Leydig cells in
 vivo, we treated luteinizing hormone (LH)-stimulated adult male
 rats and mice with MIS and demonstrated that it can lead to a
 several-fold reduction in testosterone in serum and in testicular
 extracts. There was also a slight decrease in 17-OH-progesterone
 compared to the more significant decrease in testosterone, suggesting
 that MIS might be regulating the lyase activity of cytochrome P450c17
 hydroxylase/lyase (Cyp17), but not its hydroxylase activity. Northern
 analysis showed that, in both MIS-treated rats and mice, the mRNA for
 Cyp17, which catalyzes the committed step in androgen synthesis, was
 down-regulated. In rats, the mRNA for cytochrome P450 side-chain
 cleavage (P450scc) was also down-regulated by MIS. This was not
 observed in mice, indicating that there might be species-specific
 regulation by MIS of the enzymes involved in the testosterone
 biosynthetic pathway. Our results show that MIS can be used in
 vivo to lower testosterone production by mature rodent Leydig
 cells and suggest that MIS-mediated down-regulation of the expression
 of Cyp17, and perhaps P450scc, contributes to that effect.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Our group recently demonstrated that autoimmune T cells
 directed against central nervous system-associated myelin antigens
 protect neurons from secondary degeneration. We further showed that the
 synthetic peptide copolymer 1 (Cop-1), known to suppress experimental
 autoimmune encephalomyelitis, can be safely substituted for the natural
 myelin antigen in both passive and active immunization for
 neuroprotection of the injured optic nerve. Here we attempted to
 determine whether similar immunizations are protective from retinal
 ganglion cell loss resulting from a direct biochemical insult caused,
 for example, by glutamate (a major mediator of degeneration in acute
 and chronic optic nerve insults) and in a rat model of ocular
 hypertension. Passive immunization with T cells reactive to myelin
 basic protein or active immunization with myelin oligodendrocyte
 glycoprotein-derived peptide, although neuroprotective after optic
 nerve injury, was ineffective against glutamate toxicity in mice and
 rats. In contrast, the number of surviving retinal ganglion cells per
 square millimeter in glutamate-injected retinas was significantly
 larger in mice immunized 10 days previously with Cop-1 emulsified in
 complete Freund's adjuvant than in mice injected with PBS in the same
 adjuvant (2,133 ± 270 and 1,329 ± 121, respectively,
 mean ± SEM; P < 0.02). A similar pattern was
 observed when mice were immunized on the day of glutamate injection
 (1,777 ± 101 compared with 1,414 ± 36;
 P < 0.05), but not when they were immunized
 48 h later. These findings suggest that protection from glutamate
 toxicity requires reinforcement of the immune system by antigens that
 are different from those associated with myelin. The use of Cop-1
 apparently circumvents this antigen specificity barrier. In the rat
 ocular hypertension model, which simulates glaucoma, immunization with
 Cop-1 significantly reduced the retinal ganglion cell loss from
 27.8% ± 6.8% to 4.3% ± 1.6%, without affecting the
 intraocular pressure. This study may point the way to a therapy for
 glaucoma, a neurodegenerative disease of the optic nerve often
 associated with increased intraocular pressure, as well as for acute
 and chronic degenerative disorders in which glutamate is a prominent
 participant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Induction of phase 2 enzymes and elevations of glutathione
 are major and sufficient strategies for protecting mammals and their
 cells against the toxic and carcinogenic effects of electrophiles and
 reactive forms of oxygen. Inducers belong to nine chemical classes and
 have few common properties except for their ability to modify
 sulfhydryl groups by oxidation, reduction, or alkylation. Much evidence
 suggests that the cellular “sensor” molecule that recognizes the
 inducers and signals the enhanced transcription of phase 2 genes does
 so by virtue of unique and highly reactive sulfhydryl functions that
 recognize and covalently react with the inducers. Benzylidene-alkanones
 and -cycloalkanones are Michael reaction acceptors whose inducer
 potency is profoundly increased by the presence of
 ortho- (but not other) hydroxyl substituent(s) on the
 aromatic ring(s). This enhancement correlates with more rapid
 reactivity of the ortho-hydroxylated derivatives with
 model sulfhydryl compounds. Proton NMR spectroscopy provides no
 evidence for increased electrophilicity of the β-vinyl carbons (the
 presumed site of nucleophilic attack) on the hydroxylated inducers.
 Surprisingly, these ortho-hydroxyl groups display a
 propensity for extensive intermolecular hydrogen bond formation, which
 may raise the reactivity and facilitate addition of mercaptans, thereby
 raising inducer potencies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Induction of phase 2 enzymes, which neutralize reactive
 electrophiles and act as indirect antioxidants, appears to be an
 effective means for achieving protection against a variety of
 carcinogens in animals and humans. Transcriptional control of the
 expression of these enzymes is mediated, at least in part, through the
 antioxidant response element (ARE) found in the regulatory regions of
 their genes. The transcription factor Nrf2, which binds to the ARE,
 appears to be essential for the induction of prototypical phase 2
 enzymes such as glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and
 NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1). Constitutive hepatic and
 gastric activities of GST and NQO1 were reduced by 50–80% in
 nrf2-deficient mice compared with wild-type mice.
 Moreover, the 2- to 5-fold induction of these enzymes in wild-type mice
 by the chemoprotective agent oltipraz, which is currently in clinical
 trials, was almost completely abrogated in the
 nrf2-deficient mice. In parallel with the enzymatic
 changes, nrf2-deficient mice had a significantly higher
 burden of gastric neoplasia after treatment with
 benzo[a]pyrene than did wild-type mice. Oltipraz
 significantly reduced multiplicity of gastric neoplasia in wild-type
 mice by 55%, but had no effect on tumor burden in
 nrf2-deficient mice. Thus, Nrf2 plays a central role in
 the regulation of constitutive and inducible expression of phase 2
 enzymes in vivo and dramatically influences
 susceptibility to carcinogenesis. Moreover, the total loss of
 anticarcinogenic efficacy of oltipraz in the
 nrf2-disrupted mice highlights the prime importance of
 elevated phase 2 gene expression in chemoprotection by this and similar
 enzyme inducers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The expression of DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer) is often
 markedly reduced in colorectal and other cancers. However, the rarity
 of point mutations identified in DCC coding sequences and the lack of a
 tumor predisposition phenotype in DCC hemizygous mice have raised
 questions about its role as a tumor suppressor. DCC also mediates axon
 guidance and functions as a dependence receptor; such receptors create
 cellular states of dependence on their respective ligands by inducing
 apoptosis when unoccupied by ligand. We now show that DCC
 drives cell death independently of both the mitochondria-dependent
 pathway and the death receptor/caspase-8 pathway. Moreover, we
 demonstrate that DCC interacts with both caspase-3 and caspase-9 and
 drives the activation of caspase-3 through caspase-9 without a
 requirement for cytochrome c or Apaf-1. Hence, DCC
 defines an additional pathway for the apoptosome-independent caspase
 activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In studies using subtraction cloning to screen for alterations in
 mRNA expression in skeletal muscle from humans with Type 2 diabetes
 mellitus and control subjects, one of the most prominent differences
 was in the mRNA for elongation factor (EF)-1α. With Northern blot
 analysis, EF-1α expression was enhanced by 2- to 6-fold in both Types
 1 and 2 human diabetics. In contrast, no changes in expression of
 EF-1β or -γ were noted. We observed similar results in animal
 models of Type 1 diabetes. EF-1α expression, but not EF-1β or -γ
 expression, was also enhanced in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats,
 and this effect was reversed by insulin treatment. An increased level
 of EF-1α mRNA was also observed in nonobese diabetic mice. This
 unbalanced regulation of the expression of the different subunits of
 EF-1 may contribute to alterations not only in protein synthesis but
 also in other cellular events observed in the diabetic state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fabry disease is a lipid storage disorder resulting from
 mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme α-galactosidase A (α-gal
 A; EC 3.2.1.22). We previously have demonstrated long-term α-gal A
 enzyme correction and lipid reduction mediated by therapeutic ex
 vivo transduction and transplantation of hematopoietic cells in
 a mouse model of Fabry disease. We now report marked improvement in the
 efficiency of this gene-therapy approach. For this study we used a
 novel bicistronic retroviral vector that engineers expression of both
 the therapeutic α-gal A gene and the human IL-2Rα chain (huCD25)
 gene as a selectable marker. Coexpression of huCD25 allowed selective
 immunoenrichment (preselection) of a variety of transduced human and
 murine cells, resulting in enhanced intracellular and secreted α-gal
 A enzyme activities. Of particular significance for clinical
 applicability, mobilized CD34+ peripheral blood
 hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells from Fabry patients have
 low-background huCD25 expression and could be enriched effectively
 after ex vivo transduction, resulting in increased
 α-gal A activity. We evaluated effects of preselection in the mouse
 model of Fabry disease. Preselection of transduced Fabry mouse bone
 marrow cells elevated the level of multilineage gene-corrected
 hematopoietic cells in the circulation of transplanted animals and
 improved in vivo enzymatic activity levels in plasma and
 organs for more than 6 months after both primary and secondary
 transplantation. These studies demonstrate the potential of using a
 huCD25-based preselection strategy to enhance the clinical utility of
 ex vivo hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell gene
 therapy of Fabry disease and other disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We show that anti-IgM-induced cell death in a human B lymphoma cell
 line, B104, is associated with early intracellular acidification and
 cell shrinkage. In contrast, another human B cell lymphoma line, Daudi,
 less susceptible to B cell antigen receptor-mediated cell death,
 responded to anti-IgM with an early increase in intracellular pH
 (pHi). The anti-IgM-induced changes of pHi were
 associated with different levels of activation of the
 Na+/H+ exchanger isoform 1 (NHE1) as judged
 by its phosphorylation status. Prevention of anti-IgM-induced cell
 death in B104 cells by the calcineurin phosphatase inhibitor,
 cyclosporin A, abrogated both intracellular acidification and cell
 shrinkage and was associated with an increase in the phosphorylation
 level of NHE1 within the first 60 min of stimulation. This indicates a
 key role for calcineurin in regulating pHi and cell
 viability. The potential role of pHi in cell viability was
 confirmed in Daudi cells treated with an
 Na+/H+ exchanger inhibitor
 5-(N,N-hexamethylene)amiloride. These
 observations indicate that the outcome of the anti-IgM treatment
 depends on NHE1-controlled pHi. We suggest that
 inactivation of the NHE1 in anti-IgM-stimulated cells results in
 intracellular acidification and subsequently triggers or amplifies cell
 death.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) later in life may be
 reflective of environmental factors operating over the course of a
 lifetime. Educational and occupational attainments have been found to
 be protective against the development of the disease but participation
 in activities has received little attention. In a case-control study,
 we collected questionnaire data about 26 nonoccupational activities
 from ages 20 to 60. Participants included 193 people with probable or
 possible AD and 358 healthy control-group members. Activity patterns
 for intellectual, passive, and physical activities were classified by
 using an adaptation of a published scale in terms of “diversity”
 (total number of activities), “intensity” (hours per month), and
 “percentage intensity” (percentage of total activity hours
 devoted to each activity category). The control group was more active
 during midlife than the case group was for all three activity
 categories, even after controlling for age, gender, income adequacy,
 and education. The odds ratio for AD in those performing less than the
 mean value of activities was 3.85 (95% confidence interval:
 2.65–5.58, P < 0.001). The increase in time
 devoted to intellectual activities from early adulthood (20–39) to
 middle adulthood (40–60) was associated with a significant decrease in
 the probability of membership in the case group. We conclude that
 diversity of activities and intensity of intellectual activities were
 reduced in patients with AD as compared with the control group. These
 findings may be because inactivity is a risk factor for the disease or
 because inactivity is a reflection of very early subclinical effects of
 the disease, or both.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report here the construction, characterization, and application
 of a bacterial bioreporter for fructose and sucrose that was designed
 to monitor the availability of these sugars to microbial colonizers of
 the phyllosphere. Plasmid pPfruB-gfp[AAV]
 carries the Escherichia coli fruB promoter upstream from
 the gfp[AAV] allele that codes for an unstable variant
 of green fluorescent protein (GFP). In Erwinia
 herbicola, this plasmid brings about the accumulation of GFP
 fluorescence in response to both fructose and sucrose. Cells of
 E. herbicola
 (pPfruB-gfp[AAV]) were sprayed onto bean
 plants, recovered from leaves at various time intervals after
 inoculation, and analyzed individually for GFP content by quantitative
 analysis of digital microscope images. We observed a positive
 correlation between single-cell GFP accumulation and ribosomal content
 as determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization,
 indicating that foliar growth of E. herbicola occurred
 at the expense of fructose and/or sucrose. One hour after
 inoculation, nearly all bioreporter cells appeared to be actively
 engaged in fructose consumption. This fraction dropped to approximately
 11% after 7 h and to ≈1% a day after inoculation. This pattern
 suggests a highly heterogeneous availability of fructose to individual
 E. herbicola cells as they colonize the phyllosphere. We
 estimated that individual cells were exposed to local initial fructose
 abundances ranging from less than 0.15 pg fructose to more than 4.6 pg.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We investigated the spatial pattern of expression of
 ipdC, a plant inducible gene involved in indoleacetic
 acid biosynthesis in Erwinia herbicola, among individual
 cells on plants to gain a better understanding of the role of this
 phenotype in the epiphytic ecology of bacteria and the factors involved
 in the regulation of ipdC. Nonpathogenic E.
 herbicola strain 299R harboring a transcriptional fusion of
 ipdC to gfp was inoculated onto bean
 plants, recovered from individual leaves 48 h after inoculation,
 and subjected to fluorescence in situ hybridization
 using a 16S rRNA oligonucleotide probe specific to strain 299R.
 Epifluorescence images captured through a rhodamine filter were used to
 distinguish the 5carboxytetramethylrhodamine-labeled cells of
 strain 299R from other leaf microflora. Quantification of the green
 fluorescence intensity of individual cells by analysis of digital
 images revealed that about 65% of the 299R cells recovered from bean
 leaves had higher ipdC expression than in culture.
 Additionally, 10% of the cells exhibited much higher levels of green
 fluorescence than the median fluorescence intensity, indicating that
 they are more heterogeneous with respect to ipdC
 expression on plants than in culture. Examination of 299R cells
 in situ on leaf surfaces by confocal laser scanning
 microscopy after fluorescence in situ hybridization of
 cells on leaf samples showed that even cells that were in close
 proximity exhibited dramatically different green fluorescence
 intensities, and thus, were in a physical or chemical microenvironment
 that induced differential expression of ipdC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present here the complete genome sequence of a common avian
 clone of Pasteurella multocida, Pm70. The genome of Pm70
 is a single circular chromosome 2,257,487 base pairs in length and
 contains 2,014 predicted coding regions, 6 ribosomal RNA operons, and
 57 tRNAs. Genome-scale evolutionary analyses based on pairwise
 comparisons of 1,197 orthologous sequences between P.
 multocida, Haemophilus influenzae, and
 Escherichia coli suggest that P.
 multocida and H. influenzae diverged ≈270
 million years ago and the γ subdivision of the proteobacteria
 radiated about 680 million years ago. Two previously undescribed open
 reading frames, accounting for ≈1% of the genome, encode large
 proteins with homology to the virulence-associated filamentous
 hemagglutinin of Bordetella pertussis. Consistent with
 the critical role of iron in the survival of many microbial pathogens,
 in silico and whole-genome microarray analyses
 identified more than 50 Pm70 genes with a potential role in iron
 acquisition and metabolism. Overall, the complete genomic sequence and
 preliminary functional analyses provide a foundation for future
 research into the mechanisms of pathogenesis and host specificity of
 this important multispecies pathogen.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alpha herpesviruses infect the vertebrate nervous system resulting
 in either mild recurrent lesions in mucosal epithelia or fatal
 encephalitis. Movement of virions within the nervous system is a
 critical factor in the outcome of infection; however, the dynamics of
 individual virion transport have never been assessed. Here we
 visualized and tracked individual viral capsids as they moved in axons
 away from infected neuronal cell bodies in culture. The observed
 movement was compatible with fast axonal flow mediated by multiple
 microtubule motors. Capsids accumulated at axon terminals, suggesting
 that spread from infected neurons required cell contact.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have demonstrated that presecretory proteins such
 as maltose binding protein (MBP) and outer membrane protein A (OmpA)
 are targeted to the Escherichia coli inner membrane by
 the molecular chaperone SecB, but that integral membrane proteins are
 targeted by the signal recognition particle (SRP). In
 vitro studies have suggested that trigger factor binds to a
 sequence near the N terminus of the mature region of OmpA and shunts
 the protein into the SecB pathway by blocking an interaction between
 SRP and the signal peptide. By contrast, we have found that the
 targeting pathway of a protein under physiological conditions is
 dictated by the composition of its targeting signal. Replacement of the
 MBP or OmpA signal peptide with the first transmembrane segment of AcrB
 abolished the dependence on SecB for transport and rerouted both
 proteins into the SRP targeting pathway. More modest alterations of the
 MBP signal peptide that simply increase its hydrophobicity also
 promoted SRP binding. Furthermore, we obtained evidence that SRP has a
 low affinity for typical signal peptides in vivo. These
 results imply that different classes of E. coli proteins
 are targeted by distinct pathways because bacterial SRP binds to a more
 restricted range of targeting signals than its eukaryotic counterpart.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Heterozygous reeler mice (HRM) haploinsufficient for reelin express
 ≈50% of the brain reelin content of wild-type mice, but are
 phenotypically different from both wild-type mice and homozygous reeler
 mice. They exhibit, (i) a down-regulation of glutamic
 acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67)-positive neurons in some but
 not every cortical layer of frontoparietal cortex (FPC),
 (ii) an increase of neuronal packing density and a
 decrease of cortical thickness because of neuropil hypoplasia,
 (iii) a decrease of dendritic spine expression density
 on basal and apical dendritic branches of motor FPC layer III pyramidal
 neurons, and (iv) a similar decrease in dendritic spines
 expressed on the basal dendrite branches of CA1 pyramidal neurons of
 the hippocampus. To establish whether the defect of GAD67
 down-regulation observed in HRM is responsible for neuropil hypoplasia
 and decreased dendritic spine density, we studied heterozygous
 GAD67 knockout mice (HG67M). These mice
 exhibited a down-regulation of GAD67 mRNA expression in FPC
 (about 50%), but they expressed normal amounts of reelin and had no
 neuropil hypoplasia or down-regulation of dendritic spine expression.
 These findings, coupled with electron-microscopic observations that
 reelin colocalizes with integrin receptors on dendritic spines, suggest
 that reelin may be a factor in the dynamic expression of cortical
 dendritic spines perhaps by promoting integrin receptor clustering.
 These findings are interesting because the brain neurochemical and
 neuroanatomical phenotypic traits exhibited by the HRM are in several
 ways similar to those found in postmortem brains of psychotic patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protracted administration of diazepam elicits tolerance, whereas
 discontinuation of treatment results in signs of dependence. Tolerance
 to the anticonvulsant action of diazepam is present in an early phase
 (6, 24, and 36 h) but disappears in a late phase (72–96 h) of
 withdrawal. In contrast, signs of dependence such as decrease in
 open-arm entries on an elevated plus-maze and increased susceptibility
 to pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures were apparent 96 h (but not
 12, 24, or 48 h) after diazepam withdrawal. During the first
 72 h of withdrawal, tolerance is associated with changes in the
 expression of GABAA (γ-aminobutyric acid type A) receptor
 subunits (decrease in γ2 and α1; increase
 in α5) and with an increase of mRNA expression of the
 most abundant form of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD),
 GAD67. In contrast,
 dl-α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid
 (AMPA) receptor GluR1 subunit mRNA and cognate protein, which are
 normal during the early phase of diazepam withdrawal, increase by
 approximately 30% in cortex and hippocampus in association with the
 appearance of signs of dependence 96 h after diazepam withdrawal.
 Immunohistochemical studies of GluR1 subunit expression with
 gold-immunolabeling technique reveal that the increase of GluR1 subunit
 protein is localized to layer V pyramidal neurons and their apical
 dendrites in the cortex, and to pyramidal neurons and in their
 dendritic fields in hippocampus. The results suggest an involvement of
 GABA-mediated processes in the development and maintenance of tolerance
 to diazepam, whereas excitatory amino acid-related processes
 (presumably via AMPA receptors) may be involved in the expression
 of signs of dependence after withdrawal.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have simultaneously measured the expression of postsynaptic
 γ-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor clusters and
 of presynaptic boutons in neonatal rat hippocampal cultures between
 days 1 and 30. GABAA receptors were labeled with antibodies
 recognizing the extracellular domains of β2/3 and γ2
 subunits. Boutons were visualized by activity-dependent uptake of the
 styryl dye FM4-64, or by antibodies against the presynaptic vesicular
 protein SV2 or the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase
 (GAD). GABAA receptor clusters could be seen in living
 neurons already 6 h after culturing, much before presynaptic
 markers could be identified in nerve terminals. The densities of
 receptor clusters that contained the β2/3 subunits were
 constant between days 10 and 30 in culture, whereas γ2
 subunit-containing clusters fluctuated and reached a maximum on day 20.
 SV2 and GAD staining could be measured from day 2 onwards. Clustering
 of GAD in presynaptic terminals and FM4-64 uptake were observed only at
 day 5 and afterward. SV2 staining and FM4-64 uptake increased in
 parallel between days 5 and 20 and remained constant thereafter.
 GAD-stained boutons were fewer than those labeled with other, less
 specific, presynaptic stains. They reached a maximum on day 20 and fell
 again toward day 30. Double labeling of GABAA receptors and
 of presynaptic boutons in neurons during differentiation showed that,
 even after 30 days in culture, large fractions of GABAA
 receptor clusters containing β2/3 and/or γ2 subunits
 remained extrasynaptic.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To compare neural activity produced by visual events that escape or
 reach conscious awareness, we used event-related MRI and evoked
 potentials in a patient who had neglect and extinction after focal
 right parietal damage, but intact visual fields. This neurological
 disorder entails a loss of awareness for stimuli in the field
 contralateral to a brain lesion when stimuli are simultaneously
 presented on the ipsilateral side, even though early visual areas may
 be intact, and single contralateral stimuli may still be perceived.
 Functional MRI and event-related potential study were performed during
 a task where faces or shapes appeared in the right, left, or both
 fields. Unilateral stimuli produced normal responses in V1 and
 extrastriate areas. In bilateral events, left faces that were not
 perceived still activated right V1 and inferior temporal cortex and
 evoked nonsignificantly reduced N1 potentials, with preserved
 face-specific negative potentials at 170 ms. When left faces were
 perceived, the same stimuli produced greater activity in a distributed
 network of areas including right V1 and cuneus, bilateral fusiform
 gyri, and left parietal cortex. Also, effective connectivity between
 visual, parietal, and frontal areas increased during perception of
 faces. These results suggest that activity can occur in V1 and ventral
 temporal cortex without awareness, whereas coupling with dorsal
 parietal and frontal areas may be critical for such activity to afford
 conscious perception.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report the cloning and characterization of rat α10, a
 previously unidentified member of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
 (nAChR) subunit gene family. The protein encoded by the α10 nAChR
 subunit gene is most similar to the rat α9 nAChR, and both α9 and
 α10 subunit genes are transcribed in adult rat mechanosensory hair
 cells. Injection of Xenopus laevis
 oocytes with α10 cRNA alone or in pairwise combinations with either
 α2-α6 or β2-β4 subunit cRNAs yielded no detectable ACh-gated
 currents. However, coinjection of α9 and α10 cRNAs resulted in the
 appearance of an unusual nAChR subtype. Compared with homomeric α9
 channels, the α9α10 nAChR subtype displays faster and more
 extensive agonist-mediated desensitization, a distinct current–voltage
 relationship, and a biphasic response to changes in extracellular
 Ca2+ ions. The pharmacological profiles of homomeric α9
 and heteromeric α9α10 nAChRs are essentially indistinguishable and
 closely resemble those reported for endogenous cholinergic
 eceptors found in vertebrate hair cells. Our data suggest that
 efferent modulation of hair cell function occurs, at least in part,
 through heteromeric nAChRs assembled from both α9 and α10 subunits.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Auditory conditioning (associative learning) causes reorganization
 of the cochleotopic (frequency) maps of the primary auditory cortex
 (AI) and the inferior colliculus. Focal electric stimulation of the AI
 also evokes basically the same cortical and collicular reorganization
 as that caused by conditioning. Therefore, part of the neural mechanism
 for the plasticity of the central auditory system caused by
 conditioning can be explored by focal electric stimulation of the AI.
 The reorganization is due to shifts in best frequencies (BFs) together
 with shifts in frequency-tuning curves of single neurons. In the AI of
 the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) and the
 posterior division of the AI of the mustached bat (Pteronotus
 parnellii), focal electric stimulation evokes BF shifts of
 cortical auditory neurons located within a 0.7-mm distance along the
 frequency axis. The amount and direction of BF shift differ depending
 on the relationship in BF between stimulated and recorded neurons, and
 between the gerbil and mustached bat. Comparison in BF shift between
 different mammalian species and between different cortical areas of a
 single species indicates that BF shift toward the BF of electrically
 stimulated cortical neurons (centripetal BF shift) is common in the AI,
 whereas BF shift away from the BF of electrically stimulated cortical
 neurons (centrifugal BF shift) is special. Therefore, we propose a
 hypothesis that reorganization, and accordingly organization, of
 cortical auditory areas caused by associative learning can be quite
 different between specialized and nonspecialized (ordinary) areas of
 the auditory cortex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although it is believed that little recovery occurs after
 adult mammalian spinal cord injury, in fact significant spontaneous
 functional improvement commonly occurs after spinal cord injury in
 humans. To investigate potential mechanisms underlying spontaneous
 recovery, lesions of defined components of the corticospinal motor
 pathway were made in adult rats in the rostral cervical spinal cord or
 caudal medulla. Following complete lesions of the dorsal corticospinal
 motor pathway, which contains more than 95% of all corticospinal
 axons, spontaneous sprouting from the ventral corticospinal tract
 occurred onto medial motoneuron pools in the cervical spinal cord; this
 sprouting was paralleled by functional recovery. Combined lesions of
 both dorsal and ventral corticospinal tract components eliminated
 sprouting and functional recovery. In addition, functional recovery was
 also abolished if dorsal corticospinal tract lesions were followed 5
 weeks later by ventral corticospinal tract lesions. We found extensive
 spontaneous structural plasticity as a mechanism correlating with
 functional recovery in motor systems in the adult central nervous
 system. Experimental enhancement of spontaneous plasticity may be
 useful to promote further recovery after adult central nervous system
 injury.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Excitotoxicity, resulting from sustained activation of
 glutamate receptors of the
 N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype, is
 considered to play a causative role in the etiology of ischemic stroke
 and several neurodegenerative diseases. The NMDA receptor is therefore
 a target for the development of neuroprotective agents. Here, we
 identify an N-benzylated triamine (denoted as NBTA) as a highly
 selective and potent NMDA-receptor channel blocker selected by
 screening a reduced dipeptidomimetic synthetic combinatorial library.
 NBTA blocks recombinant NMDA receptors expressed in
 Xenopus laevis oocytes with a mean
 IC50 of 80 nM; in contrast, it does not block GluR1, a
 glutamate receptor of the non-NMDA subtype. The blocking activity of
 NBTA on NMDA receptors exhibits the characteristics of an open-channel
 blocker: (i) no competition with agonists,
 (ii) voltage dependence, and (iii) use
 dependence. Significantly, NBTA protects rodent hippocampal neurons
 from NMDA receptor, but not kainate receptor-mediated excitotoxic cell
 death, in agreement with its selective action on the corresponding
 recombinant receptors. Mutagenesis data indicate that the N site, a key
 asparagine on the M2 transmembrane segment of the NR1 subunit, is the
 main determinant of the blocker action. The results highlight the
 potential of this compound as a neuroprotectant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dendritic spines are sites of the vast majority of excitatory
 synaptic input to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Estrogen has been
 shown to increase the density of dendritic spines on CA1 pyramidal cell
 dendrites in adult female rats. In parallel with increased spine
 density, estrogen has been shown also to increase the number of spine
 synapses formed with multiple synapse boutons (MSBs). These findings
 suggest that estrogen-induced dendritic spines form synaptic contacts
 with preexisting presynaptic boutons, transforming some previously
 single synapse boutons (SSBs) into MSBs. The goal of the current study
 was to determine whether estrogen-induced MSBs form multiple synapses
 with the same or different postsynaptic cells. To quantify same-cell
 vs. different-cell MSBs, we filled individual CA1 pyramidal cells with
 biocytin and serially reconstructed dendrites and dendritic spines of
 the labeled cells, as well as presynaptic boutons in synaptic contact
 with labeled and unlabeled (i.e., different-cell) spines. We found that
 the overwhelming majority of MSBs in estrogen-treated animals form
 synapses with more than one postsynaptic cell. Thus, in addition to
 increasing the density of excitatory synaptic input to individual CA1
 pyramidal cells, estrogen also increases the divergence of input from
 individual presynaptic boutons to multiple postsynaptic CA1 pyramidal
 cells. These findings suggest the formation of new synaptic connections
 between previously unconnected hippocampal neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Unilateral intrahippocampal injections of tetrodotoxin were
 used to temporarily inactivate one hippocampus during specific phases
 of training in an active allothetic place avoidance task. The rat was
 required to use landmarks in the room to avoid a room-defined sector of
 a slowly rotating circular arena. The continuous rotation dissociated
 room cues from arena cues and moved the arena surface through a part of
 the room in which foot-shock was delivered. The rat had to move away
 from the shock zone to prevent being transported there by the rotation.
 Unilateral hippocampal inactivations profoundly impaired acquisition
 and retrieval of the allothetic place avoidance. Posttraining
 unilateral hippocampal inactivation also impaired performance in
 subsequent sessions. This allothetic place avoidance task seems more
 sensitive to hippocampal disruption than the standard water maze task
 because the same unilateral hippocampal inactivation does not impair
 performance of the variable-start, fixed hidden goal task after
 procedural training. The results suggest that the hippocampus not only
 encodes allothetic relationships amongst landmarks, it also organizes
 perceived allothetic stimuli into systems of mutually stable
 coordinates. The latter function apparently requires greater
 hippocampal integrity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The spatial orientation of vertebrates is implemented by two
 complementary mechanisms: allothesis, processing the information about
 spatial relationships between the animal and perceptible landmarks, and
 idiothesis, processing the substratal and inertial information produced
 by the animal's active or passive movement through the environment.
 Both systems allow the animal to compute its position with respect to
 perceptible landmarks and to the already traversed portion of the path.
 In the present study, we examined the properties of substratal
 idiothesis deprived of relevant exteroceptive information. Rats
 searching for food pellets in an arena formed by a movable inner disk
 and a peripheral immobile belt were trained in darkness to avoid a
 60° sector; rats that entered this sector received a mild foot shock.
 The punished sector was defined in the substratal idiothetic frame, and
 the rats had to determine the location of the shock sector with the use
 of substratal idiothesis only, because all putative intramaze cues were
 made irrelevant by angular displacements of the disk relative to the
 belt. Striking impairment of place avoidance by this “shuffling
 procedure” indicates that effective substratal idiothesis must be
 updated by exteroceptive intramaze cues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In both humans and animals, the hippocampus is critical to memory
 across modalities of information (e.g., spatial and nonspatial memory)
 and plays a critical role in the organization and flexible expression
 of memories. Recent studies have advanced our understanding of cellular
 basis of hippocampal function, showing that
 N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in
 area CA1 are required in both the spatial and nonspatial domains of
 learning. Here we examined whether CA1 NMDA receptors are specifically
 required for the acquisition and flexible expression of nonspatial
 memory. Mice lacking CA1 NMDA receptors were impaired in solving a
 transverse patterning problem that required the simultaneous
 acquisition of three overlapping odor discriminations, and their
 impairment was related to an abnormal strategy by which they failed to
 adequately sample and compare the critical odor stimuli. By contrast,
 they performed normally, and used normal stimulus sampling strategies,
 in the concurrent learning of three nonoverlapping concurrent odor
 discriminations. These results suggest that CA1 NMDA receptors play a
 crucial role in the encoding and flexible expression of stimulus
 relations in nonspatial memory.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ability of the sulfonylurea receptor (SUR) 1 to suppress
 seizures and excitotoxic neuron damage was assessed in mice
 transgenically overexpressing this receptor. Fertilized eggs from FVB
 mice were injected with a construct containing SUR cDNA and a
 calcium-calmodulin kinase IIα promoter. The resulting
 mice showed normal gross anatomy, brain morphology and histology, and
 locomotor and cognitive behavior. However, they overexpressed the SUR1
 transgene, yielding a 9- to 12-fold increase in the density of
 [3H]glibenclamide binding to the cortex, hippocampus, and
 striatum. These mice resisted kainic acid-induced seizures, showing a
 36% decrease in average maximum seizure intensity and a 75% survival
 rate at a dose that killed 53% of the wild-type mice. Kainic
 acid-treated transgenic mice showed no significant loss of hippocampal
 pyramidal neurons or expression of heat shock protein 70, whereas
 wild-type mice lost 68–79% of pyramidal neurons in the CA1–3
 subfields and expressed high levels of heat shock protein 70 after
 kainate administration. These results indicate that the transgenic
 overexpression of SUR1 alone in forebrain structures significantly
 protects mice from seizures and neuronal damage without interfering
 with locomotor or cognitive function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurotrophins regulate neuronal cell survival and synaptic
 plasticity through activation of Trk receptor tyrosine kinases. Binding
 of neurotrophins to Trk receptors results in receptor
 autophosphorylation and downstream phosphorylation cascades. Here, we
 describe an approach to use small molecule agonists to transactivate
 Trk neurotrophin receptors. Activation of TrkA receptors in PC12 cells
 and TrkB in hippocampal neurons was observed after treatment with
 adenosine, a neuromodulator that acts through G protein-coupled
 receptors. These effects were reproduced by using the adenosine agonist
 CGS 21680 and were counteracted with the antagonist ZM 241385,
 indicating that this transactivation event by adenosine involves
 adenosine 2A receptors. The increase in Trk activity could be inhibited
 by the use of the Src family-specific inhibitor, PP1, or K252a, an
 inhibitor of Trk receptors. In contrast to other G protein-coupled
 receptor transactivation events, adenosine used Trk receptor signaling
 with a longer time course. Moreover, adenosine activated
 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt through a Trk-dependent mechanism
 that resulted in increased cell survival after nerve growth factor or
 brain-derived neurotrophic factor withdrawal. Therefore, adenosine
 acting through the A2A receptors exerts a trophic effect
 through the engagement of Trk receptors. These results provide an
 explanation for neuroprotective actions of adenosine through a
 unique signaling mechanism and raise the possibility that small
 molecules may be used to elicit neurotrophic effects for the treatment
 of neurodegenerative diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Insulin potentiates N-methyl-d-aspartate
 receptors (NMDARs) in neurons and Xenopus oocytes
 expressing recombinant NMDARs. The present study shows that insulin
 induced (i) an increase in channel number times open
 probability (nPo) in outside-out patches
 excised from Xenopus oocytes, with no change in mean
 open time, unitary conductance, or reversal potential, indicating an
 increase in n and/or Po;
 (ii) an increase in charge transfer during block of
 NMDA-elicited currents by the open channel blocker MK-801, indicating
 increased number of functional NMDARs in the cell membrane with no
 change in Po; and (iii)
 increased NR1 surface expression, as indicated by Western blot analysis
 of surface proteins. Botulinum neurotoxin A greatly reduced insulin
 potentiation, indicating that insertion of new receptors occurs via
 SNARE-dependent exocytosis. Thus, insulin potentiation occurs via
 delivery of new channels to the plasma membrane. NMDARs assembled from
 mutant subunits lacking all known sites of tyrosine and
 serine/threonine phosphorylation in their carboxyl-terminal tails
 exhibited robust insulin potentiation, suggesting that insulin
 potentiation does not require direct phosphorylation of NMDAR subunits.
 Because insulin and insulin receptors are localized to glutamatergic
 synapses in the hippocampus, insulin-regulated trafficking of NMDARs
 may play a role in synaptic transmission and plasticity, including
 long-term potentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe the construction of a soluble protein carrying the
 N-terminal extracellular domain (ECD) of the α7 subunit of the
 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. The approach was to fuse the α7 ECD
 at the C and N termini of several monomeric and pentameric soluble
 carrier proteins and to investigate the soluble expression of the
 product in Escherichia coli. An initial screening of six
 carrier proteins resulted in the selection of a fusion protein
 comprising, from the N to the C terminus, the maltose binding protein,
 a 17-aa linker containing an enterokinase binding site, and the α7
 ECD. This protein is soluble upon expression in bacteria and is
 purified by affinity chromatography. It binds the competitive nicotinic
 antagonist α-bungarotoxin with 2.5 μM affinity and displays a CD
 spectrum corresponding to a folded protein. The method might be
 suitable to produce large quantities of protein for crystallization and
 immunochemical experiments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gamma oscillations synchronized between distant neuronal
 populations may be critical for binding together brain regions devoted
 to common processing tasks. Network modeling predicts that such
 synchrony depends in part on the fast time course of excitatory
 postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in interneurons, and that even moderate
 slowing of this time course will disrupt synchrony. We generated mice
 with slowed interneuron EPSPs by gene targeting, in which the gene
 encoding the 67-kDa form of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) was
 altered to drive expression of the
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate
 receptor subunit GluR-B. GluR-B is a determinant of the relatively slow
 EPSPs in excitatory neurons and is normally expressed at low levels in
 γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons, but at high levels in
 the GAD-GluR-B mice. In both wild-type and GAD-GluR-B mice, tetanic
 stimuli evoked gamma oscillations that were indistinguishable in local
 field potential recordings. Remarkably, however, oscillation synchrony
 between spatially separated sites was severely disrupted in the mutant,
 in association with changes in interneuron firing patterns. The
 congruence between mouse and model suggests that the rapid time course
 of AMPA receptor-mediated EPSPs in interneurons might serve to allow
 gamma oscillations to synchronize over distance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We reported previously that Go-deficient mice develop severe
 neurological defects that include hyperalgesia, a generalized tremor,
 lack of coordination, and a turning syndrome somewhat reminiscent of
 unilateral lesions of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathway. By using
 frozen coronal sections of serially sectioned brains of normal and
 Go-deficient mice, we studied the ability of several G protein coupled
 receptors to promote binding of GTPγS to G proteins and the ability
 of GTP to promote a shift in the affinity of D2 dopamine receptor for
 its physiologic agonist dopamine. We found a generalized, but not
 abolished reduction in agonist-stimulated binding of GTPγS to frozen
 brain sections, with no significant left–right differences.
 Unexpectedly, the ability of GTP to regulate the binding affinity of
 dopamine to D2 receptors (as seen in in situ
 [35S]sulpiride displacement curves) that was robust in
 control mice, was absent in Go-deficient mice. The data suggest that
 most of the effects of the Gi/Go-coupled D2 receptors in the central
 nervous system are mediated by Go instead of Gi1, Gi2, or Gi3. In
 agreement with this, the effect of GTP on dopamine binding to D2
 receptors in double Gi1 plus Gi2- and Gi1 plus Gi3-deficient mice was
 essentially unaffected.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DETA-NONOate, a nitric oxide (NO) donor, induced cytostasis in the
 human breast cancer cells MDA-MB-231, and the cells were arrested in
 the G1 phase of the cell cycle. This cytostatic effect of
 the NO donor was associated with the down-regulation of cyclin D1 and
 hypophosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein. No changes in the
 levels of cyclin E or the catalytic partners of these cyclins, CDK2,
 CDK4, or CDK6, were observed. This NO-induced cytostasis and decrease
 in cyclin D1 was reversible for up to 48 h of DETA-NONOate (1 mM)
 treatment. DETA-NONOate (1 mM) produced a steady-state concentration of
 0.5 μM of NO over a 24-h period. Synchronized population of the cells
 exposed to DETA-NONOate remained arrested at the G1 phase
 of the cell cycle whereas untreated control cells progressed through
 the cell cycle after serum stimulation. The cells arrested at the
 G1 phase after exposure to the NO donor had low cyclin D1
 levels compared with the control cells. The levels of cyclin E and
 CDK4, however, were similar to the control cells. The decline in cyclin
 D1 protein preceded the decrease of its mRNA. This decline of cyclin D1
 was due to a decrease in its synthesis induced by the NO donor and not
 due to an increase in its degradation. We conclude that down-regulation
 of cyclin D1 protein by DETA-NONOate played an important role in the
 cytostasis and arrest of these tumor cells in the G1 phase
 of the cell cycle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effects of testosterone on early atherogenesis and the role of
 aromatase, an enzyme that converts testosterone to estrogens, were
 assessed in low density lipoprotein receptor-deficient male mice fed a
 Western diet. Castration of male mice increased the extent of fatty
 streak lesion formation in the aortic origin compared with
 testes-intact animals. Administration of anastrazole, a selective
 aromatase inhibitor, to testes-intact males increased lesion formation
 to the same extent as that observed with orchidectomized animals.
 Testosterone supplementation of orchidectomized animals reduced lesion
 formation when compared with orchidectomized animals receiving the
 placebo. This attenuating effect of testosterone was not observed when
 the animals were treated simultaneously with the aromatase inhibitor.
 The beneficial effects of testosterone on early atherogenesis were not
 explained by changes in lipid levels. Estradiol administration to
 orchidectomized males attenuated lesion formation to the same extent as
 testosterone administration. Aromatase was expressed in the aorta of
 these animals as assessed by reverse transcription–PCR and
 immunohistochemistry. These results indicate that testosterone
 attenuates early atherogenesis most likely by being converted to
 estrogens by the enzyme aromatase expressed in the vessel wall.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters bind and hydrolyze ATP. In
 the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator
 Cl− channel, this interaction with ATP generates a gating
 cycle between a closed (C) and two open (O1 and O2) conformations. To
 understand better how ATP controls channel activity, we examined gating
 transitions from the C to the O1 and O2 states and from these open
 states to the C conformation. We made three main observations. First,
 we found that the channel can open into either the O1 or O2 state, that
 the frequency of transitions to both states was increased by ATP
 concentration, and that ATP increased the relative proportion of
 openings into O1 vs. O2. These results indicate that ATP can interact
 with the closed state to open the channel in at least two ways, which
 may involve binding to nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) NBD1 and NBD2.
 Second, ATP prolonged the burst duration and altered the way in which
 the channel closed. These data suggest that ATP also interacts with the
 open channel. Third, the channel showed runs of specific types of
 open–closed transitions. This finding suggests a mechanism with more
 than one cycle of gating transitions. These data suggest models to
 explain how ATP influences conformational transitions in cystic
 fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator and perhaps other ABC
 transporters.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A finely tuned Ca2+ signaling system is essential for
 cells to transduce extracellular stimuli, to regulate growth, and to
 differentiate. We have recently cloned CaT-like (CaT-L), a highly
 selective Ca2+ channel closely related to the epithelial
 calcium channels (ECaC) and the calcium transport protein CaT1. CaT-L
 is expressed in selected exocrine tissues, and its expression also
 strikingly correlates with the malignancy of prostate cancer. The
 expression pattern and selective Ca2+ permeation properties
 suggest an important function in Ca2+ uptake and a role in
 tumor progression, but not much is known about the regulation of this
 subfamily of ion channels. We now demonstrate a biochemical and
 functional mechanism by which cells can control CaT-L activity. CaT-L
 is regulated by means of a unique calmodulin binding site,
 which, at the same time, is a target for protein kinase C-dependent
 phosphorylation. We show that Ca2+-dependent
 calmodulin binding to CaT-L, which facilitates channel
 inactivation, can be counteracted by protein kinase C-mediated
 phosphorylation of the calmodulin binding site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Suppression of cardiac voltage-gated Na+ currents is
 probably one of the important factors for the cardioprotective effects
 of the n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) against lethal
 arrhythmias. The α subunit of the human cardiac Na+
 channel (hH1α) and its mutants were expressed in human
 embryonic kidney (HEK293t) cells. The effects of single amino acid
 point mutations on fatty acid-induced inhibition of the
 hH1α Na+ current (INa) were
 assessed. Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, C20:5n-3) significantly reduced
 INa in HEK293t cells expressing the wild type, Y1767K, and
 F1760K of hH1α Na+ channels. The inhibition
 was voltage and concentration-dependent with a significant
 hyperpolarizing shift of the steady state of INa. In
 contrast, the mutant N406K was significantly less sensitive to the
 inhibitory effect of EPA. The values of the shift at 1, 5, and 10 μM
 EPA were significantly smaller for N406K than for the wild type.
 Coexpression of the β1 subunit and N406K further
 decreased the inhibitory effects of EPA on INa in HEK293t
 cells. In addition, EPA produced a smaller hyperpolarizing shift of the
 V1/2 of the steady-state inactivation in HEK293t cells
 coexpressing the β1 subunit and N406K. These results
 demonstrate that substitution of asparagine with lysine at the site of
 406 in the domain-1-segment-6 region (D1-S6) significantly decreased
 the inhibitory effect of PUFAs on INa, and coexpression
 with β1 decreased this effect even more. Therefore,
 asparagine at the 406 site in hH1α may be important for
 the inhibition by the PUFAs of cardiac voltage-gated Na+
 currents, which play a significant role in the antiarrhythmic actions
 of PUFAs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phytochrome B (PhyB), one of the major photosensory chromoproteins
 in plants, mediates a variety of light-responsive developmental
 processes in a photoreversible manner. To analyze the structural
 requirements of the chromophore for the spectral properties of PhyB, we
 have designed and chemically synthesized 20 analogs of the linear
 tetrapyrrole (bilin) chromophore and reconstituted them with PhyB
 apoprotein (PHYB). The A-ring acts mainly as the anchor for ligation to
 PHYB, because the modification of the side chains at the C2 and C3
 positions did not significantly influence the formation or difference
 spectra of adducts. In contrast, the side chains of the B- and C-rings
 are crucial to position the chromophore properly in the chromophore
 pocket of PHYB and for photoreversible spectral changes. The side-chain
 structure of the D-ring is required for the photoreversible spectral
 change of the adducts. When methyl and ethyl groups at the C17 and C18
 positions are replaced with an n-propyl,
 n-pentyl, or n-octyl group, respectively,
 the photoreversible spectral change of the adducts depends on the
 length of the side chains. From these studies, we conclude that each
 pyrrole ring of the linear tetrapyrrole chromophore plays a different
 role in chromophore assembly and the photochromic properties of PhyB.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The utility of live attenuated vaccines for controlling HIV
 epidemics is being debated. Live attenuated HIV vaccines (LAHVs) could
 be extremely effective in protecting against infection with wild-type
 strains, but may not be completely safe as the attenuated strain could
 cause AIDS in some vaccinated individuals. We present a theoretical
 framework for evaluating the consequences of the tradeoff between
 vaccine efficacy (in terms of preventing new infections with wild-type
 strains) and safety (in terms of vaccine-induced AIDS deaths). We use
 our framework to predict, for Zimbabwe and Thailand, the
 epidemiological impact of 1,000 different (specified by efficacy and
 safety characteristics) LAHVs. We predict that paradoxically:
 (i) in Zimbabwe (where transmission is high) LAHVs would
 significantly decrease the AIDS death rate, but (ii) in
 Thailand (where transmission is low) exactly the same vaccines (in
 terms of efficacy and safety characteristics) would increase the AIDS
 death rate. Our results imply that a threshold transmission rate exists
 that determines whether any given LAHV has a beneficial or a
 detrimental impact. We also determine the vaccine perversity point,
 which is defined in terms of the fraction of vaccinated individuals who
 progress to AIDS as a result of the vaccine strain. Vaccination with
 any LAHV that causes more than 5% of vaccinated individuals to
 progress to AIDS in 25 years would, even 50 years later, lead to
 perversity (i.e., increase the annual AIDS death rate) in Thailand;
 these same vaccines would lead to decreases in the annual AIDS death
 rate in Zimbabwe.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most analyses of Brownian flocculation apply to conditions where
 London–van der Waals attractive forces cause particles to be strongly
 bound in a deep interparticle potential well. In this paper, results
 are reported that show the interaction between primary- and
 secondary-minimum flocculation when the interparticle potential curve
 reflects both attractive and electrostatic repulsive forces. The
 process is highly time-dependent because of transfer of particles from
 secondary- to primary-minimum flocculation. Essential features of the
 analysis are corroborated by experiments with 0.80-μm polystyrene
 spheres suspended in aqueous solutions of NaCl over a range of ionic
 strengths. In all cases, experiments were restricted to the initial
 stage of coagulation, where singlets and doublets predominate.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A variety of naturally occurring biomaterials owe their unusual
 structural and mechanical properties to layers of β-sheet proteins
 laminated between layers of inorganic mineral. To explore the
 possibility of fabricating novel two-dimensional protein layers, we
 studied the self-assembly properties of de novo proteins
 from a designed combinatorial library. Each protein in the library has
 a distinct 63 amino acid sequence, yet they all share an identical
 binary pattern of polar and nonpolar residues, which was designed to
 favor the formation of six-stranded amphiphilic β-sheets.
 Characterization of proteins isolated from the library demonstrates
 that (i) they self assemble into monolayers at an
 air/water interface; (ii) the monolayers are dominated
 by β-sheet secondary structure, as shown by both circular dichroism
 and infrared spectroscopies; and (iii) the measured
 areas (500- 600 Å2) of individual protein molecules in the
 monolayers match those expected for proteins folded into amphiphilic
 β-sheets. The finding that similar structures are formed by
 distinctly different protein sequences suggests that assembly into
 β-sheet monolayers can be encoded by binary patterning of polar and
 nonpolar amino acids. Moreover, because the designed binary pattern is
 compatible with a wide variety of different sequences, it may be
 possible to fabricate β-sheet monolayers by using combinations of
 side chains that are explicitly designed to favor particular
 applications of novel biomaterials.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Laser tweezers and atomic force microscopes are increasingly used
 to probe the interactions and mechanical properties of individual
 molecules. Unfortunately, using such time-dependent perturbations to
 force rare molecular events also drives the system away from
 equilibrium. Nevertheless, we show how equilibrium free energy profiles
 can be extracted rigorously from repeated nonequilibrium force
 measurements on the basis of an extension of Jarzynski's remarkable
 identity between free energies and the irreversible work.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two types of endogenous cannabinoid-receptor agonists
 have been identified thus far. They are the ethanolamides of
 polyunsaturated fatty acids—arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide) is
 the best known compound in the amide series—and 2-arachidonoyl
 glycerol, the only known endocannabinoid in the ester series. We report
 now an example of a third, ether-type endocannabinoid, 2-arachidonyl
 glyceryl ether (noladin ether), isolated from porcine brain. The
 structure of noladin ether was determined by mass spectrometry and
 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and was confirmed by comparison
 with a synthetic sample. It binds to the CB1 cannabinoid
 receptor (Ki = 21.2 ± 0.5 nM) and
 causes sedation, hypothermia, intestinal immobility, and mild
 antinociception in mice. It binds weakly to the CB2
 receptor (Ki > 3 μM).
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the beginning the surface of the Earth was extremely hot,
 because the Earth as we know it is the product of a collision between
 two planets, a collision that also created the Moon. Most of the heat
 within the very young Earth was lost quickly to space while the surface
 was still quite hot. As it cooled, the Earth's surface passed
 monotonically through every temperature regime between silicate vapor
 to liquid water and perhaps even to ice, eventually reaching an
 equilibrium with sunlight. Inevitably the surface passed through a time
 when the temperature was around 100°C at which modern thermophile
 organisms live. How long this warm epoch lasted depends on how long a
 thick greenhouse atmosphere can be maintained by heat flow from the
 Earth's interior, either directly as a supplement to insolation, or
 indirectly through its influence on the nascent carbonate cycle. In
 both cases, the duration of the warm epoch would have been controlled
 by processes within the Earth's interior where buffering by surface
 conditions played little part. A potentially evolutionarily significant
 warm period of between 105 and 107 years seems
 likely, which nonetheless was brief compared to the vast expanse of
 geological time.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) is among those brain regions having
 the highest baseline metabolic activity at rest and one that exhibits
 decreases from this baseline across a wide variety of goal-directed
 behaviors in functional imaging studies. This high metabolic rate and
 this behavior suggest the existence of an organized mode of default
 brain function, elements of which may be either attenuated or enhanced.
 Extant data suggest that these MPFC regions may contribute to the
 neural instantiation of aspects of the multifaceted “self.” We
 explore this important concept by targeting and manipulating elements
 of MPFC default state activity. In this functional magnetic resonance
 imaging (fMRI) study, subjects made two judgments, one
 self-referential, the other not, in response to affectively normed
 pictures: pleasant vs. unpleasant (an internally cued condition, ICC)
 and indoors vs. outdoors (an externally cued condition, ECC). The ICC
 was preferentially associated with activity increases along the dorsal
 MPFC. These increases were accompanied by decreases in both active task
 conditions in ventral MPFC. These results support the view that dorsal
 and ventral MPFC are differentially influenced by
 attentiondemanding tasks and explicitly self-referential tasks.
 The presence of self-referential mental activity appears
 to be associated with increases from the baseline in dorsal MPFC.
 Reductions in ventral MPFC occurred consistent with the fact that
 attention-demanding tasks attenuate emotional processing. We posit that
 both self-referential mental activity and emotional processing
 represent elements of the default state as represented by activity in
 MPFC. We suggest that a useful way to explore the neurobiology of the
 self is to explore the nature of default state activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We characterize a class of spatio-temporal illusions with two
 complementary properties. Firstly, if a vernier stimulus is flashed for
 a short time on a monitor and is followed immediately by a grating, the
 latter can express features of the vernier, such as its offset, its
 orientation, or its motion (feature inheritance). Yet the vernier
 stimulus itself remains perceptually invisible. Secondly, the vernier
 can be rendered visible by presenting gratings with a larger number of
 elements (shine-through). Under these conditions, subjects perceive two
 independent “objects” each carrying their own features.
 Transition between these two domains can be effected by subtle changes
 in the spatio-temporal layout of the grating. This should allow
 psychophysicists and electrophysiologists to investigate feature
 binding in a precise and quantitative manner.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Thioredoxin (Trx) and glutathione (GSH) systems are
 considered to be two major redox systems in animal cells. They are
 reduced by NADPH via Trx reductase (TR) or oxidized GSH (GSSG)
 reductase and further supply electrons for deoxyribonucleotide
 synthesis, antioxidant defense, and redox regulation of signal
 transduction, transcription, cell growth, and apoptosis. We
 cloned and characterized a pyridine nucleotide disulfide
 oxidoreductase, Trx and GSSG reductase (TGR), that exhibits specificity
 for both redox systems. This enzyme contains a selenocysteine residue
 encoded by the TGA codon. TGR can reduce Trx, GSSG, and a GSH-linked
 disulfide in in vitro assays. This unusual substrate
 specificity is achieved by an evolutionary conserved fusion of the TR
 and glutaredoxin domains. These observations, together with the
 biochemical probing and molecular modeling of the TGR structure,
 suggest a mechanism whereby the C-terminal selenotetrapeptide serves a
 role of a protein-linked GSSG and shuttles electrons from the disulfide
 center within the TR domain to either the glutaredoxin domain or Trx.
DOC DONE!Abstract
2-Keto-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconate (KDPG) aldolase catalyzes the
 reversible cleavage of KDPG to pyruvate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate.
 The enzyme is a class I aldolase whose reaction mechanism involves
 formation of Schiff base intermediates between Lys-133 and a keto
 substrate. A covalent adduct was trapped by flash freezing KDPG
 aldolase crystals soaked with 10 mM pyruvate in acidic conditions at pH
 4.6. Structure determination to 1.95-Å resolution showed that pyruvate
 had undergone nucleophilic attack with Lys-133, forming a protonated
 carbinolamine intermediate, a functional Schiff base precursor, which
 was stabilized by hydrogen bonding with active site residues.
 Carbinolamine interaction with Glu-45 indicates general base catalysis
 of several rate steps. Stereospecific addition is ensured by aromatic
 interaction of Phe-135 with the pyruvate methyl group. In the native
 structure, Lys-133 donates all of its hydrogen bonds, indicating the
 presence of an ɛ-ammonium salt group. Nucleophilic activation is
 postulated to occur by proton transfer in the monoprotonated
 zwitterionic pair (Glu-45/Lys-133). Formation of the zwitterionic
 pair requires prior side chain rearrangement by protonated Lys-133 to
 displace a water molecule, hydrogen bonded to the zwitterionic
 residues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sm and Sm-like proteins are members of a family of small proteins
 that is widespread throughout eukaryotic kingdoms. These proteins form
 heteromers with one another and bind, as heteromeric complexes, to
 various RNAs, recognizing primarily short U-rich stretches.
 Interestingly, completion of several genome projects revealed that
 archaea also contain genes that may encode Sm-like proteins. Herein, we
 studied the properties of one Sm-like protein derived from the
 archaebacterium Archaeoglobus fulgidus and overexpressed
 in Escherichia coli. This single small protein closely
 reflects the properties of an Sm or Sm-like protein heteromer. It binds
 to RNA with a high specificity for oligo(U), and assembles onto the RNA
 to form a complex that exhibits, as judged by electron microscopy, a
 ring-like structure similar to the ones observed with the Sm core
 ribonucleoprotein and the like Sm (LSm) protein heteromer. Importantly,
 multivariate statistical analysis of negative-stain
 electron-microscopic images revealed a sevenfold symmetry for the
 observed ring structure, indicating that the proteins form a
 homoheptamer. These results support the structural model of the Sm
 proteins derived from crystallographic studies on Sm heterodimers and
 demonstrate that the Sm protein family evolved from a single ancestor
 that was present before the eukaryotic and archaeal kingdoms separated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The immediate early gene NUR77 (also called
 NGFI-B) is required for T cell antigen receptor-mediated
 cell death and is induced to very high levels in immature thymocytes
 and T cell hybridomas undergoing apoptosis. The Akt (PKB)
 kinase is a key player in transduction of anti-apoptotic and
 proliferative signals in T cells. Because Nur77 has a putative Akt
 phosphorylation site at Ser-350, and phosphorylation of this residue is
 critical for the transactivation activity of Nur77, we investigated
 whether Akt regulates Nur77. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed
 the detection of Nur77 in Akt immune complexes, suggesting that Nur77
 and Akt physically interact. We further show that Akt specifically
 phosphorylates Ser-350 of the Nur77 protein within its DNA-binding
 domain in vitro and in vivo in 293 and
 NIH 3T3 cells. Because phosphorylation of Ser-350 of Nur77 is critical
 for its function as a transcription factor, we examined the effect of
 Akt on this function. By using luciferase assay experiments, we showed
 that phosphorylation of Nur77 by Akt decreased the transcriptional
 activity of Nur77 by 50–85%. Thus, we show that Akt interacts with
 Nur77 and inactivates Nur77 by phosphorylation at Ser-350 in a
 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent manner, connecting the
 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent Akt pathway and a nuclear
 receptor pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The secondary structure of a truncated P5abc subdomain (tP5abc, a
 56-nucleotide RNA) of the Tetrahymena thermophila group
 I intron ribozyme changes when its tertiary structure forms. We have
 now used heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy to determine its conformation
 in solution. The tP5abc RNA that contains only secondary structure is
 extended compared with the tertiary folded form; both forms coexist in
 slow chemical exchange (the interconversion rate constant is slower
 than 1 s−1) in the presence of magnesium. Kinetic
 experiments have shown that tertiary folding of the P5abc subdomain is
 one of the earliest folding transitions in the group I intron ribozyme,
 and that it leads to a metastable misfolded intermediate. Previous
 mutagenesis studies suggest that formation of the extended P5abc
 structure described here destabilize a misfolded intermediate. This
 study shows that the P5abc RNA subdomain containing a GNRA tetraloop in
 P5c (in contrast to the five-nucleotide loop P5c in the tertiary folded
 ribozyme) can disrupt the base-paired interdomain (P14) interaction
 between P5c and P2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We demonstrate that in situ optical surface plasmon
 resonance spectroscopy can be used to monitor hybridization kinetics
 for unlabeled DNA in tethered monolayer nucleic acid films on gold in
 the presence of an applied electrostatic field. The dc field can
 enhance or retard hybridization and can also denature
 surface-immobilized DNA duplexes. Discrimination between matched and
 mismatched hybrids is achieved by simple adjustment of the electrode
 potential. Although the electric field at the interface is extremely
 large, the tethered single-stranded DNA thiol probes remain bound and
 can be reused for subsequent hybridization reactions without loss of
 efficiency. Only capacitive charging currents are drawn; redox
 reactions are avoided by maintaining the gold electrode potential
 within the ideally polarizable region. Because of potential-induced
 changes in the shape of the surface plasmon resonance curve, we account
 for the full curve rather than simply the shift in the resonance
 minimum.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By using sensitive homology-search and gene-finding programs,
 we have found that a genomic region from the tip of the short arm of
 human chromosome 16 (16p13.3) encodes a putative secreted protein
 consisting of a domain related to the whey acidic protein (WAP) domain,
 a domain homologous with follistatin modules of the Kazal-domain family
 (FS module), an immunoglobulin-related domain (Ig domain), two tandem
 domains related to Kunitz-type protease inhibitor modules (KU domains),
 and a domain belonging to the recently defined NTR-module family (NTR
 domain). The gene encoding these WAP, FS,
 Ig, KU, and NTR modules (hereafter
 referred to as the WFIKKN gene) is intron-depleted—its
 single 1,157-bp intron splits the WAP module. The validity of our gene
 prediction was confirmed by sequencing a WFIKKN cDNA cloned from a lung
 cDNA library. Studies on the tissue-expression pattern of the
 WFIKKN gene have shown that the gene is expressed
 primarily in pancreas, kidney, liver, placenta, and lung. As to the
 function of the WFIKKN protein, it is noteworthy that it contains FS,
 WAP, and KU modules, i.e., three different module types homologous with
 domains frequently involved in inhibition of serine proteases. The
 protein also contains an NTR module, a domain type implicated in
 inhibition of zinc metalloproteinases of the metzincin family.
 On the basis of its intriguing homologies, we suggest that the WFIKKN
 protein is a multivalent protease inhibitor that may control the action
 of multiple types of serine proteases as well as
 metalloproteinase(s).
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two cellular retinol-binding proteins (CRBP I and II) with distinct
 tissue distributions and retinoid-binding properties have been
 recognized thus far in mammals. Here, we report the identification of a
 human retinol-binding protein resembling type I (55.6% identity) and
 type II (49.6% identity) CRBPs, but with a unique H residue in the
 retinoid-binding site and a distinctively different tissue
 distribution. Additionally, this binding protein (CRBP III) exhibits a
 remarkable sequence identity (62.2%) with the recently identified
 ι-crystallin/CRBP of the diurnal gecko Lygodactylus
 picturatus [Werten, P. J. L., Röll, B., van
 Alten, D. M. F. & de Jong, W. W. (2000) Proc.
 Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97, 3282–3287 (First Published March 21,
 2000; 10.1073/pnas.050500597)]. CRBP III and
 all-trans-retinol form a complex
 (Kd ≈ 60 nM), the absorption spectrum
 of which is characterized by the peculiar fine structure typical of the
 spectra of holo-CRBP I and II. As revealed by a 2.3-Å x-ray molecular
 model of apo-CRBP III, the amino acid residues that line the
 retinol-binding site in CRBP I and II are positioned nearly identically
 in the structure of CRBP III. At variance with the human CRBP I and II
 mRNAs, which are most abundant in ovary and intestine, respectively,
 the CRBP III mRNA is expressed at the highest levels in kidney and
 liver thus suggesting a prominent role for human CRBP III as an
 intracellular mediator of retinol metabolism in these tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A β-hairpin conformation has been characterized in crystals of
 the decapeptide
 t-butoxycarbonyl-Leu-Val-βPhe-Val-DPro-Gly-Leu-βPhe-Val-Val-methyl
 ester [βPhe; (S)-β3 homophenylalanine] by x-ray
 diffraction. The polypeptide chain reversal is nucleated by the
 centrally positioned DPro-Gly segment, which adopts a
 type-I′ β-turn conformation. Four intramolecular cross-strand
 hydrogen bonds stabilize the peptide fold. The βPhe(3) and βPhe(8)
 residues occupy facing positions on the hairpin, with the side chains
 projecting on opposite faces of the β-sheet. At the site of insertion
 of β-residues, the polarity of the peptide units along each strand
 reverses, as compared with the α-peptide segments. In this analog, a
 small segment of a polar sheet is observed, where adjacent CO and NH
 groups line up in opposite directions in each strand. In the crystal,
 an extended β-sheet is formed by hydrogen bonding between strands of
 antiparallel pairs of β-hairpins. The crystallographic parameters for
 C65H102N10O13⋅
 3H2O are: space group
 P212121; a = 19.059(8) Å,
 b = 19.470(2) Å, c = 21.077(2) Å; Z = 4; agreement
 factor R1 = 9.12% for 3,984 data
 observed >4σ(F) and a resolution of 0.90 Å.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The A loop is an essential RNA component of the ribosome
 peptidyltransferase center that directly interacts with aminoacyl
 (A)-site tRNA. The A loop is highly conserved and contains a ubiquitous
 2′-O-methyl ribose modification at position U2552. Here,
 we present the solution structure of a modified and unmodified A-loop
 RNA to define both the A-loop fold and the structural impact of the
 U2552 modification. Solution data reveal that the A-loop RNA has a
 compact structure that includes a noncanonical base pair between C2556
 and U2552. NMR evidence is presented that the N3 position of C2556 has
 a shifted pKa and that protonation at C2556-N3 changes the C-U pair
 geometry. Our data indicate that U2552 methylation modifies the A-loop
 fold, in particular the dynamics and position of residues C2556 and
 U2555. We compare our structural data with the structure of the A loop
 observed in a recent 50S crystal structure [Ban, N., Nissen, P.,
 Hansen, J., Moore, P. B. & Steitz, T. A. (2000)
 Science 289, 905–920; Nissen, P., Hansen, J.,
 Ban, N., Moore, P. B. & Steitz, T. A. (2000)
 Science 289, 920–930]. The solution and crystal
 structures of the A loop are dramatically different, suggesting that a
 structural rearrangement of the A loop must occur on docking into the
 peptidyltransferase center. Possible roles of this docking event, the
 shifted pKa of C2556 and the U2552 2′-O-methylation in the
 mechanism of translation, are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evernimicin (Evn), an oligosaccharide antibiotic, interacts
 with the large ribosomal subunit and inhibits bacterial protein
 synthesis. RNA probing demonstrated that the drug protects a specific
 set of nucleotides in the loops of hairpins 89 and 91 of 23S rRNA in
 bacterial and archaeal ribosomes. Spontaneous Evn-resistant mutants of
 Halobacterium halobium contained mutations in hairpins
 89 and 91 of 23S rRNA. In the ribosome tertiary structure, rRNA
 residues involved in interaction with the drug form a tight cluster
 that delineates the drug-binding site. Resistance mutations in the
 bacterial ribosomal protein L16, which is shown to be homologous to
 archaeal protein L10e, cluster to the same region as the rRNA
 mutations. The Evn-binding site overlaps with the binding site of
 initiation factor 2. Evn inhibits activity of initiation factor 2
 in vitro, suggesting that the drug interferes with
 formation of the 70S initiation complex. The site of Evn binding and
 its mode of action are distinct from other ribosome-targeted
 antibiotics. This antibiotic target site can potentially be used for
 the development of new antibacterial drugs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) is
 essential for intracellular transport of protein fragments into the
 endoplasmic reticulum for loading of major histocompatibility complex
 (MHC) class I molecules. On the cell surface, these peptide–MHC
 complexes are monitored by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. To study the ATP
 hydrolysis of TAP, we developed an enrichment and reconstitution
 procedure, by which we fully restored TAP function in proteoliposomes.
 A TAP-specific ATPase activity was identified that could be stimulated
 by peptides and blocked by the herpes simplex virus protein ICP47.
 Strikingly, the peptide-binding motif of TAP directly correlates with
 the stimulation of the ATPase activity, demonstrating that the initial
 peptide-binding step is responsible for TAP selectivity. ATP hydrolysis
 follows Michaelis–Menten kinetics with a maximal velocity
 Vmax of 2 μmol/min per mg TAP,
 corresponding to a turnover number of approximately 5 ATP per second.
 This turnover rate is sufficient to account for the role of TAP in
 peptide loading of MHC molecules and the overall process of antigen
 presentation. Interestingly, sterically restricted peptides that bind
 but are not transported by TAP do not stimulate ATPase activity. These
 results point to coordinated dialogue between the peptide-binding site,
 the nucleotide-binding domain, and the translocation site via
 conformational changes within the TAP complex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Caenorhabditis elegans sqv mutants
 are defective in vulval epithelial invagination and have a severe
 reduction in hermaphrodite fertility. The gene sqv-7
 encodes a multitransmembrane hydrophobic protein resembling nucleotide
 sugar transporters of the Golgi membrane. A Golgi vesicle enriched
 fraction of Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing SQV-7
 transported UDP-glucuronic acid,
 UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine, and UDP-galactose (Gal) in a
 temperature-dependent and saturable manner. These nucleotide sugars are
 competitive, alternate, noncooperative substrates. The two mutant
 sqv-7 missense alleles resulted in a severe reduction of
 these three transport activities. SQV-7 did not transport CMP-sialic
 acid, GDP-fucose, UDP-N-acetylglucosamine, UDP-glucose,
 or GDP-mannose. SQV-7 is able to transport UDP-Gal in
 vivo, as shown by its ability to complement the phenotype of
 Madin-Darby canine kidney ricin resistant cells, a mammalian cell line
 deficient in UDP-Gal transport into the Golgi. These results
 demonstrate that unlike most nucleotide sugar transporters, SQV-7 can
 transport multiple distinct nucleotide sugars. We propose that SQV-7
 translocates multiple nucleotide sugars into the Golgi lumen for
 the biosynthesis of glycoconjugates that play a pivotal role
 in development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Drosophila mutant methuselah
 (mth) was identified from a screen for single gene
 mutations that extended average lifespan. Mth mutants
 have a 35% increase in average lifespan and increased resistance to
 several forms of stress, including heat, starvation, and oxidative
 damage. The protein affected by this mutation is related to G
 protein-coupled receptors of the secretin receptor family. Mth, like
 secretin receptor family members, has a large N-terminal ectodomain,
 which may constitute the ligand binding site. Here we report the 2.3-Å
 resolution crystal structure of the Mth extracellular region, revealing
 a folding topology in which three primarily β-structure-containing
 domains meet to form a shallow interdomain groove containing a
 solvent-exposed tryptophan that may represent a ligand binding site.
 The Mth structure is analyzed in relation to predicted Mth homologs and
 potential ligand binding features.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report the use of “mRNA display,” an in
 vitro selection technique, to identify peptide aptamers to a
 protein target. mRNA display allows for the preparation of polypeptide
 libraries with far greater complexity than is possible with phage
 display. Starting with a library of ≈1013 random
 peptides, 20 different aptamers to streptavidin were obtained, with
 dissociation constants as low as 5 nM. These aptamers function without
 the aid of disulfide bridges or engineered scaffolds, yet possess
 affinities comparable to those for monoclonal antibody–antigen
 complexes. The aptamers bind streptavidin with three to four orders of
 magnitude higher affinity than those isolated previously by phage
 display from lower complexity libraries of shorter random peptides.
 Like previously isolated peptides, they contain an HPQ consensus motif.
 This study shows that, given sufficient length and diversity,
 high-affinity aptamers can be obtained even from random nonconstrained
 peptide libraries. By engineering structural constraints into these
 ultrahigh complexity peptide libraries, it may be possible to produce
 binding agents with subnanomolar binding constants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent data indicate that sustained elevations in plasma insulin
 suppress the mRNA for IRS-2, a component of the insulin signaling
 pathway in liver, and that this deficiency contributes to hepatic
 insulin resistance and inappropriate gluconeogenesis. Here, we use
 nuclear run-on assays to show that insulin inhibits transcription of
 the IRS-2 gene in the livers of intact rats. Insulin also inhibited
 transcription of a reporter gene driven by the human IRS-2 promoter
 that was transfected into freshly isolated rat hepatocytes. The human
 promoter contains a heptanucleotide sequence, TGTTTTG, that is
 identical to the insulin response element (IRE) identified previously
 in the promoters of insulin-repressed genes. Single base pair
 substitutions in this IRE decreased transcription of the IRS-2-driven
 reporter in the absence of insulin and abolished insulin-mediated
 repression. We conclude that insulin represses transcription of the
 IRS-2 gene by blocking the action of a positive factor that binds to
 the IRE. Sustained repression of IRS-2, as occurs in chronic
 hyperinsulinemia, contributes to hepatic insulin resistance and
 accelerates the development of the diabetic state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The yeast cytosol contains multiple homologs of the DnaK and DnaJ
 chaperone family. Our current understanding of which homologs
 functionally interact is incomplete. Zuotin is a DnaJ homolog bound to
 the yeast ribosome. We have now identified the DnaK homolog
 Ssz1p/Pdr13p as zuotin's partner chaperone. Zuotin and Ssz1p form a
 ribosome-associated complex (RAC) that is bound to the ribosome via the
 zuotin subunit. RAC is unique among the eukaryotic DnaK-DnaJ systems,
 as the 1:1 complex is stable, even in the presence of ATP or ADP.
 In vitro, RAC stimulates the translocation of a
 ribosome-bound mitochondrial precursor protein into mitochondria,
 providing evidence for its chaperone-like effect on nascent chains. In
 agreement with the existence of a functional complex, deletion of each
 RAC subunit resulted in a similar phenotype in vivo.
 However, overexpression of zuotin partly rescued the growth defect of
 the Δssz1 strain, whereas overexpression of Ssz1p did
 not affect the Δzuo1 strain, suggesting a pivotal
 function for the DnaJ homolog.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The intracellular degradation of many proteins is mediated in an
 ATP-dependent manner by large assemblies comprising a chaperone ring
 complex associated coaxially with a proteolytic cylinder, e.g., ClpAP,
 ClpXP, and HslUV in prokaryotes, and the 26S proteasome in eukaryotes.
 Recent studies of the chaperone ClpA indicate that it mediates
 ATP-dependent unfolding of substrate proteins and directs their
 ATP-dependent translocation into the ClpP protease. Because the axial
 passageway into the proteolytic chamber is narrow, it seems likely that
 unfolded substrate proteins are threaded from the chaperone into the
 protease, suggesting that translocation could be directional. We have
 investigated directionality in the ClpA/ClpP-mediated reaction by
 using two substrate proteins bearing the COOH-terminal ssrA recognition
 element, each labeled near the NH2 or COOH terminus with
 fluorescent probes. Time-dependent changes in both fluorescence
 anisotropy and fluorescence resonance energy transfer between donor
 fluorophores in the ClpP cavity and the substrate probes as acceptors
 were measured to monitor translocation of the substrates from ClpA into
 ClpP. We observed for both substrates that energy transfer occurs 2–4
 s sooner with the COOH-terminally labeled molecules than with the
 NH2-terminally labeled ones, indicating that translocation
 is indeed directional, with the COOH terminus of the substrate protein
 entering ClpP first.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Laser tweezers and atomic force microscopes are increasingly used
 to probe the interactions and mechanical properties of individual
 molecules. Unfortunately, using such time-dependent perturbations to
 force rare molecular events also drives the system away from
 equilibrium. Nevertheless, we show how equilibrium free energy profiles
 can be extracted rigorously from repeated nonequilibrium force
 measurements on the basis of an extension of Jarzynski's remarkable
 identity between free energies and the irreversible work.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Allosteric effects in hemoglobin arise from the equilibrium between
 at least two energetic states of the molecule: a tense state, T, and a
 relaxed state, R. The two states differ from each other in the number
 and energy of the interactions between hemoglobin subunits. In the T
 state, constraints between subunits oppose the structural changes
 resulting from ligand binding. In the R state, these constraints are
 released, thus enhancing ligand-binding affinity. In the present work,
 we report the presence of four sites in hemoglobin that are
 structurally stabilized in the R relative to the T state. These sites
 are Hisα103(G10) and Hisα122(H5) in each α subunit of hemoglobin.
 They are located at the α1β1 and
 α2β2 interfaces of the hemoglobin tetramer,
 where the histidine side chains form hydrogen bonds with specific
 residues from the β chains. We have measured the solvent exchange
 rates of side chain protons of Hisα103(G10) and Hisα122(H5) in both
 deoxygenated and ligated hemoglobin by NMR spectroscopy. The exchange
 rates were found to be higher in the deoxygenated-T than in ligated-R
 state. Analysis of exchange rates in terms of the local unfolding model
 revealed that the structural stabilization free energy at each of these
 two histidines is larger by ≈1.5 kcal/(mol tetramer) in the R
 relative to the T state. The location of these histidines at the
 intradimeric α1β1 and
 α2β2 interfaces also suggests a role for
 these interfaces in the allosteric equilibrium of hemoglobin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We introduce a computational method to optimize the in
 vitro evolution of proteins. Simulating evolution with a simple
 model that statistically describes the fitness landscape, we find that
 beneficial mutations tend to occur at amino acid positions that are
 tolerant to substitutions, in the limit of small libraries and low
 mutation rates. We transform this observation into a design strategy by
 applying mean-field theory to a structure-based computational model to
 calculate each residue's structural tolerance. Thermostabilizing and
 activity-increasing mutations accumulated during the experimental
 directed evolution of subtilisin E and T4 lysozyme are strongly
 directed to sites identified by using this computational approach. This
 method can be used to predict positions where mutations are likely to
 lead to improvement of specific protein properties.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Carbohydrate–protein bonds interrupt the rapid flow of leukocytes
 in the circulation by initiation of rolling and tethering at vessel
 walls. The cell surface carbohydrate ligands are glycosylated proteins
 like the mucin P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1), which bind
 ubiquitously to the family of E-, P-, and L-selectin proteins in
 membranes of leukocytes and endothelium. The current view is that
 carbohydrate–selectin bonds dissociate a few times per second, and the
 unbinding rate increases weakly with force. However, such studies have
 provided little insight into how numerous hydrogen bonds, a
 Ca2+ metal ion bond, and other interactions contribute to
 the mechanical strength of these attachments. Decorating a force probe
 with very dilute ligands and controlling touch to achieve rare
 single-bond events, we have varied the unbinding rates of
 carbohydrate–selectin bonds by detachment with ramps of force/time
 from 10 to 100,000 pN/sec. Testing PSGL-1, its outer 19 aa (19FT),
 and sialyl LewisX (sLeX) against L-selectin
 in vitro on glass microspheres and in
 situ on neutrophils, we found that the unbinding rates followed
 the same dependence on force and increased by nearly 1,000-fold as
 rupture forces rose from a few to ≈200 pN. Plotted on a logarithmic
 scale of loading rate, the rupture forces reveal two prominent energy
 barriers along the unbinding pathway. Strengths above 75 pN arise from
 rapid detachment (<0.01 sec) impeded by an inner barrier that requires
 a Ca2+ bond between a single sLeX and the
 lectin domain. Strengths below 75 pN occur under slow detachment
 (>0.01 sec) impeded by the outer barrier, which appears to involve an
 array of weak (putatively hydrogen) bonds.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Light microscopy of thick biological samples, such as tissues, is
 often limited by aberrations caused by refractive index variations
 within the sample itself. This problem is particularly severe for live
 imaging, a field of great current excitement due to the development of
 inherently fluorescent proteins. We describe a method of removing such
 aberrations computationally by mapping the refractive index of the
 sample using differential interference contrast microscopy, modeling
 the aberrations by ray tracing through this index map, and using
 space-variant deconvolution to remove aberrations. This approach will
 open possibilities to study weakly labeled molecules in
 difficult-to-image live specimens.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It recently was proposed [Loo, D. D. F., Zeuthen, T.,
 Chandy, G. & Wright, E. M. (1996) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
 USA 93, 13367–13370] that SGLT1, the high affinity intestinal
 and renal sodium/glucose cotransporter carries water molecules along
 with the cosubstrates with a strict stoichiometry of two
 Na+, one glucose, and ≈220 water molecules per transport
 cycle. Using electrophysiology together with sensitive volumetric
 measurements, we investigated the nature of the driving force behind
 the cotransporter-mediated water flux. The osmotic water permeability
 of oocytes expressing human SGLT1 (Lp ± SE)
 averaged 3.8 ± 0.3 × 10−4
 cm⋅s−1 (n = 15) and addition of 100
 μM phlorizin (a specific SGLT1 inhibitor) reduced the permeability to
 2.2 ± 0.2 × 10−4 cm⋅s−1
 (n = 15), confirming the presence of a significant
 water permeability closely associated with the cotransporter. Addition
 of 5 mM α-methyl-glucose (αMG) induced an average inward current of
 800 ± 10 nA at −50 mV and a water influx reaching 120 ± 20 pL
 cm−2 ⋅s−1 within 5–8 min. After rapidly
 inhibiting the Na+/glucose cotransport with phlorizin,
 the water flux remained significantly elevated, clearly indicating the
 presence of a local osmotic gradient (Δπ) estimated at 16 ± 2
 mOsm. In short-term experiments, a rapid depolarization from −100 to 0
 mV in the presence of αMG decreased the cotransport current by 94%
 but failed to produce a comparable reduction in the swelling rate. A
 mathematical model depicting the intracellular accumulation of
 transported osmolytes can accurately account for these observations. It
 is concluded that, in SGLT1-expressing oocytes, αMG-dependent water
 influx is induced by a local osmotic gradient by using both
 endogenous and SGLT1-dependent water permeability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic studies have identified Drosophila Naked
 Cuticle (Nkd) as an antagonist of the canonical
 Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, but its mechanism of
 action remains obscure [Zeng, W., Wharton, K. A., Jr., Mack,
 J. A., Wang, K., Gadbaw, M., et al. (2000)
 Nature (London) 403, 789–795]. Here we have cloned a
 cDNA encoding a mammalian homolog of Drosophila Nkd,
 mNkd, and demonstrated that mNkd interacts directly with Dishevelled.
 Dishevelled is an intracellular mediator of both the canonical Wnt
 pathway and planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway. Activation of the
 c-Jun-N-terminal kinase has been implicated in the PCP pathway. We
 showed that mNkd acts in a cell-autonomous manner not only to inhibit
 the canonical Wnt pathway but also to stimulate c-Jun-N-terminal kinase
 activity. Expression of mNkd disrupted convergent extension in
 Xenopus, consistent with a role for mNkd in the PCP
 pathway. These data suggest that mNkd may act as a switch to direct
 Dishevelled activity toward the PCP pathway, and away from the
 canonical Wnt pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
GD25 cells lacking β1 integrins or expressing β1A with
 mutations of conserved cytoplasmic tyrosines (Y783, Y795) to
 phenylalanine have poor directed migration to platelet-derived growth
 factor or lysophosphatidic acid when compared with GD25 cells
 expressing wild-type β1A. We studied the effects of v-src on these
 cells. Transformation with v-src caused tyrosine and serine
 phosphorylation of wild-type β1A but not of Y783/795F doubly
 mutated β1A. v-src-transformed cells had rounded and/or fusiform
 morphology and poor assembly of fibronectin matrix. Adhesion to
 fibronectin or laminin and coupling of focal contacts to
 actin-containing cytoskeleton were preserved in transformed Y783/795F
 cells but lost on transformation when β1A was wild type. Transformed
 Y783/795F cells also retained ability, albeit limited, to migrate
 across filters, whereas transformed cells with wild-type β1A were
 unable to transverse filters. Studies of single tyrosine mutants showed
 that the more important tyrosine for retaining ability to adhere,
 assemble focal contacts, and migrate is Y783. These results suggest
 that overactive phosphorylation of cytoplasmic residues of β1A,
 particularly Y783, accounts in part for the phenotype of
 v-src-transformed cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The human brm (hbrm) protein (homologue of the Drosophila
 melanogaster brahma and Saccharomyces cervisiae
 SNF-2 proteins) is part of a polypeptide complex believed to regulate
 chromatin conformation. We have shown that the hbrm protein is cleaved
 in NB4 leukemic cells after induction of apoptosis by
 UV-irradiation, DNA damaging agents, or staurosporine. Because hbrm is
 found only in the nucleus, we have investigated the nature of the
 proteases that may regulate the degradation of this protein during
 apoptosis. In an in vitro assay, the hbrm
 protein could not be cleaved by caspase-3, -7, or -6, the
 “effector” caspases generally believed to carry out the cleavage
 of nuclear protein substrates. In contrast, we find that cathepsin G, a
 granule enzyme found in NB4 cells, cleaves hbrm in a pattern similar to
 that observed in vivo during apoptosis. In
 addition, a peptide inhibitor of cathepsin G blocks hbrm cleavage
 during apoptosis but does not block activation of caspases or
 cleavage of the nuclear protein polyADP ribose polymerase (PARP).
 Although localized in granules and in the Golgi complex in untreated
 cells, cathepsin G becomes diffusely distributed during
 apoptosis. Cleavage by cathepsin G removes a 20-kDa fragment
 containing a bromodomain from the carboxyl terminus of hbrm. This
 cleavage disrupts the association between hbrm and the nuclear matrix;
 the 160-kDa hbrm cleavage fragment is less tightly associated with the
 nuclear matrix than full-length hbrm.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Muscle tissue is the major site for insulin-stimulated glucose
 uptake in vivo, due primarily to the recruitment of the
 insulin-sensitive glucose transporter (GLUT4) to the plasma membrane.
 Surprisingly, virtually all cultured muscle cells express little or no
 GLUT4. We show here that adenovirus-mediated expression of the
 transcriptional coactivator PGC-1, which is expressed in muscle
 in vivo but is also deficient in cultured muscle cells,
 causes the total restoration of GLUT4 mRNA levels to those observed
 in vivo. This increased GLUT4 expression correlates with
 a 3-fold increase in glucose transport, although much of this protein
 is transported to the plasma membrane even in the absence of insulin.
 PGC-1 mediates this increased GLUT4 expression, in large part, by
 binding to and coactivating the muscle-selective transcription factor
 MEF2C. These data indicate that PGC-1 is a coactivator of MEF2C and can
 control the level of endogenous GLUT4 gene expression in
 muscle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent evidence suggests that the Myc and Mad1 proteins are
 implicated in the regulation of the gene encoding the human telomerase
 reverse transcriptase (hTERT), the catalytic subunit of telomerase. We
 have analyzed the in vivo interaction between
 endogenous c-Myc and Mad1 proteins and the
 hTERT promoter in HL60 cells with the use of the
 chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. The E-boxes at the
 hTERT proximal promoter were occupied in
 vivo by c-Myc in exponentially proliferating HL60 cells but not
 in cells induced to differentiate by DMSO. In contrast, Mad1 protein
 was induced and bound to the hTERT promoter in
 differentiated HL60 cells. Concomitantly, the acetylation of the
 histones at the promoter was significantly reduced. These data suggest
 that the reciprocal E-box occupancy by c-Myc and Mad1 is responsible
 for activation and repression of the hTERT gene in
 proliferating and differentiated HL60 cells, respectively. Furthermore,
 the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A inhibited
 deacetylation of histones at the hTERT promoter and
 attenuated the repression of hTERT transcription during
 HL60 cell differentiation. In addition, trichostatin A treatment
 activated hTERT transcription in resting human
 lymphocytes and fibroblasts. Taken together, these results indicate
 that acetylation/deacetylation of histones is operative in the
 regulation of hTERT expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Profilins are thought to play a central role in the regulation of
 de novo actin assembly by preventing spontaneous actin
 polymerization through the binding of actin monomers, and the adding of
 monomeric actin to the barbed actin-filament ends. Other cellular
 functions of profilin in membrane trafficking and lipid based signaling
 are also likely. Binding of profilins to signaling molecules such as
 Arp2/3 complex, Mena, VASP, N-WASP, dynamin I, and
 others, further implicates profilin and actin as regulators of diverse
 motile activities. In mouse, two profilins are expressed from two
 distinct genes. Profilin I is expressed at high levels in all tissues
 and throughout development, whereas profilin II is expressed in
 neuronal cells. To examine the function of profilin I in
 vivo, we generated a null profilin I
 (pfn1ko) allele in mice. Homozygous
 pfn1ko/ko mice are not viable.
 Pfn1ko/ko embryos died as early as the
 two-cell stage, and no pfn1ko/ko blastocysts
 were detectable. Adult pfn1ko/wt mice show a
 50% reduction in profilin I expression with no apparent impairment of
 cell function. However, pfn1ko/wt embryos
 have reduced survival during embryogenesis compared with wild type.
 Although weakly expressed in early embryos, profilin II cannot
 compensate for lack of profilin I. Our results indicate that mouse
 profilin I is an essential protein that has dosage-dependent effects on
 cell division and survival during embryogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is an autosomal dominant
 disorder characterized by endocrine tumors of parathyroids, pancreatic
 islets, and anterior pituitary. The MEN1 gene encodes a nuclear protein
 called menin. In MEN1 carriers inactivating mutations give rise to a
 truncated product consistent with menin acting as a tumor suppressor
 gene. However, the role of menin in tumorigenesis and its physiological
 functions are not known. Here, we show that menin inactivation by
 antisense RNA antagonizes transforming growth factor type β-mediated
 cell growth inhibition. Menin interacts with Smad3, and antisense menin
 suppresses transforming growth factor type β-induced and
 Smad3-induced transcriptional activity by inhibiting Smad3/4-DNA
 binding at specific transcriptional regulatory sites. These results
 implicate a mechanism of tumorigenesis by menin inactivation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human synovial sarcoma has been shown to exclusively harbor
 the chromosomal translocation t(X;18) that produces the chimeric gene
 SYT-SSX. However, the role of SYT-SSX in cellular transformation
 remains unclear. In this study, we have established 3Y1 rat fibroblast
 cell lines that constitutively express SYT, SSX1, and SYT-SSX1 and
 found that SYT-SSX1 promoted growth rate in culture,
 anchorage-independent growth in soft agar, and tumor formation in nude
 mice. Deletion of the N-terminal 181 amino acids of SYT-SSX1 caused
 loss of its transforming activity. Furthermore, association of SYT-SSX1
 with the chromatin remodeling factor hBRM/hSNF2α, which regulates
 transcription, was demonstrated in both SYT-SSX1-expressing 3Y1 cells
 and in the human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II. The binding
 region between the two molecules was shown to reside within the
 N-terminal 181 amino acids stretch (aa 1–181) of SYT-SSX1 and 50 amino
 acids (aa 156–205) of hBRM/hSNF2α and we found that the
 overexpression of this binding region of hBRM/hSNF2α
 significantly suppressed the anchorage-independent growth of
 SYT-SSX1-expressing 3Y1 cells. To analyze the transcriptional
 regulation by SYT-SSX1, we established conditional expression system of
 SYT-SSX1 and examined the gene expression profiles. The down-regulation
 of potential tumor suppressor DCC was observed among 1,176 genes
 analyzed by microarray analysis, and semi-quantitative reverse
 transcription–PCR confirmed this finding. These data clearly
 demonstrate transforming activity of human oncogene SYT-SSX1 and also
 involvement of chromatin remodeling factor hBRM/hSNF2α in human
 cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
SF3b155 is an essential spliceosomal protein, highly
 conserved during evolution. It has been identified as a subunit of
 splicing factor SF3b, which, together with a second multimeric complex
 termed SF3a, interacts specifically with the 12S U2 snRNP and converts
 it into the active 17S form. The protein displays a characteristic
 intranuclear localization. It is diffusely distributed in the
 nucleoplasm but highly concentrated in defined intranuclear structures
 termed “speckles,” a subnuclear compartment enriched in small
 ribonucleoprotein particles and various splicing factors. The primary
 sequence of SF3b155 suggests a multidomain structure,
 different from those of other nuclear speckles components. To identify
 which part of SF3b155 determines its specific intranuclear
 localization, we have constructed expression vectors encoding a series
 of epitope-tagged SF3b155 deletion mutants as well as
 chimeric combinations of SF3b155 sequences with the soluble
 cytoplasmic protein pyruvate kinase. Following transfection of cultured
 mammalian cells, we have identified (i) a functional nuclear
 localization signal of the monopartite type (KRKRR, amino acids
 196–200) and (ii) a molecular segment with multiple threonine-proline
 repeats (amino acids 208–513), which is essential and sufficient to
 confer a specific accumulation in nuclear speckles. This latter
 sequence element, in particular amino acids 208–440, is required for
 correct subcellular localization of SF3b155 and is also
 sufficient to target a reporter protein to nuclear speckles. Moreover,
 this “speckle-targeting sequence” transfers the capacity for
 interaction with other U2 snRNP components.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intercellular signaling by fibroblast growth factors plays vital
 roles during embryogenesis. Mice deficient for fibroblast growth factor
 receptors (FgfRs) show abnormalities in early gastrulation and
 implantation, disruptions in epithelial–mesenchymal interactions, as
 well as profound defects in membranous and endochondrial bone
 formation. Activating FGFR mutations are the underlying
 cause of several craniosynostoses and dwarfism syndromes in humans.
 Here we show that a heterozygotic abrogation of FgfR2-exon 9
 (IIIc) in mice causes a splicing switch, resulting in a
 gain-of-function mutation. The consequences are neonatal growth
 retardation and death, coronal synostosis, ocular proptosis, precocious
 sternal fusion, and abnormalities in secondary branching in several
 organs that undergo branching morphogenesis. This phenotype has strong
 parallels to some Apert's and Pfeiffer's syndrome patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Eye development in both invertebrates and vertebrates is regulated
 by a network of highly conserved transcription factors. However, it is
 not known what controls the expression of these factors to regulate
 early eye formation and whether transmembrane signaling events are
 involved. Here we establish a role for signaling via a member of the
 frizzled family of receptors in regulating early eye development. We
 show that overexpression of Xenopus frizzled 3 (Xfz3), a
 receptor expressed during normal eye development, functions cell
 autonomously to promote ectopic eye formation and can perturb
 endogenous eye development. Ectopic eyes obtained with Xfz3
 overexpression have a laminar organization similar to that of
 endogenous eyes and contain differentiated retinal cell
 types. Ectopic eye formation is preceded by ectopic expression of
 transcription factors involved in early eye development, including
 Pax6, Rx, and Otx2. Conversely, targeted overexpression of a
 dominant-negative form of Xfz3 (Nxfz3), consisting of the soluble
 extracellular domain of the receptor, results in suppression of
 endogenous Pax6, Rx, and Otx2 expression and suppression of
 endogenous eye development. This effect can be rescued by
 coexpression of Xfz3. Finally, overexpression of Kermit, a protein that
 interacts with the C-terminal intracellular domain of Xfz3, also blocks
 endogenous eye development, suggesting that signaling
 through Xfz3 or a related receptor is required for normal eye
 development. In summary, we show that frizzled signaling is both
 necessary and sufficient to regulate eye development in
 Xenopus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Drosophila homolog of the retinoid X receptor,
 ultraspiracle (USP), heterodimerizes with the ecdysone receptor (EcR)
 to form a functional complex that mediates the effects of the steroid
 molting hormone ecdysone by activating and repressing expression of
 ecdysone response genes. As with other retinoid X receptor
 heterodimers, EcR/USP affects gene transcription in a
 ligand-modulated manner. We used in vivo, cell culture,
 and biochemical approaches to analyze the functions of two
 usp alleles, usp3 and
 usp4, which encode stable proteins with
 defective DNA-binding domains. We observed that USP is able to activate
 as well as repress the Z1 isoform of the ecdysone-responsive
 broad complex (BrC-Z1). Activation of
 BrC-Z1 as well as EcR, itself an ecdysone
 response gene, can be mediated by both the USP3 and USP4 mutant
 proteins. USP3 and USP4 also activate an ecdysone-responsive element,
 hsp27EcRE, in cultured cells. These results differ from the protein
 null allele, usp2, which is unable to
 mediate activation [Schubiger, M. & Truman, J. W. (2000)
 Development 127, 1151–1159]. BrC-Z1
 repression is compromised in all three usp alleles,
 suggesting that repression involves the association of USP with DNA.
 Our results distinguish two mechanisms by which USP modulates the
 properties of EcR: one that involves the USP DNA-binding domain and one
 that can be achieved solely through the ligand-binding domain. These
 newly revealed properties of USP might implicate similar properties for
 retinoid X receptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Within the mammalian inner ear there are six separate sensory
 regions that subserve the functions of hearing and balance, although
 how these sensory regions become specified remains unknown. Each
 sensory region is populated by two cell types, the mechanosensory hair
 cell and the supporting cell, which are arranged in a mosaic in which
 each hair cell is surrounded by supporting cells. The proposed
 mechanism for creating the sensory mosaic is lateral inhibition
 mediated by the Notch signaling pathway. However, one of the Notch
 ligands, Jagged1 (Jag1), does not show an
 expression pattern wholly consistent with a role in lateral inhibition,
 as it marks the sensory patches from very early in their
 development—presumably long before cells make their final fate
 decisions. It has been proposed that Jag1 has a role in
 specifying sensory versus nonsensory epithelium within the ear [Adam,
 J., Myat, A., Roux, I. L., Eddison, M., Henrique, D.,
 Ish-Horowicz, D. & Lewis, J. (1998) Development (Cambridge,
 U.K.) 125, 4645–4654]. Here we provide experimental evidence
 that Notch signaling may be involved in specifying sensory regions by
 showing that a dominant mouse mutant headturner (Htu)
 contains a missense mutation in the Jag1 gene and
 displays missing posterior and sometimes anterior ampullae, structures
 that house the sensory cristae. Htu/+ mutants also
 demonstrate a significant reduction in the numbers of outer hair cells
 in the organ of Corti. Because lateral inhibition mediated by Notch
 predicts that disruptions in this pathway would lead to an increase in
 hair cells, we believe these data indicate an earlier role for Notch
 within the inner ear.
DOC DONE!Abstract
When individual amoebae of the cellular slime mold
 Dictyostelium discoideum are starving,
 they aggregate to form a multicellular migrating slug, which moves
 toward a region suitable for culmination. The culmination of the
 morphogenesis involves complex cell movements that transform a mound of
 cells into a globule of spores on a slender stalk. The movement has
 been likened to a “reverse fountain,” whereby prestalk cells in
 the upper part form a stalk that moves downwards and anchors to the
 substratum, while prespore cells in the lower part move upwards to form
 the spore head. So far, however, no satisfactory explanation has been
 produced for this process. Using a computer simulation that we
 developed, we now demonstrate that the processes that are essential
 during the earlier stages of the morphogenesis are in fact sufficient
 to produce the dynamics of the culmination stage. These processes are
 cAMP signaling, differential adhesion, cell differentiation, and
 production of extracellular matrix. Our model clarifies the processes
 that generate the observed cell movements. More specifically, we show
 that periodic upward movements, caused by chemotactic motion, are
 essential for successful culmination, because the pressure waves they
 induce squeeze the stalk downwards through the cell mass. The
 mechanisms revealed by our model have a number of self-organizing and
 self-correcting properties and can account for many previously
 unconnected and unexplained experimental observations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Innate immunity in Drosophila is characterized by
 the inducible expression of antimicrobial peptides. We have
 investigated the development and regulation of immune responsiveness in
 Drosophila embryos after infection. Immune competence,
 as monitored by the induction of Cecropin
 A1-lacZ constructs, was observed first in the
 embryonic yolk. This observation suggests that the yolk plays an
 important role in the humoral immune response of the developing embryo
 by synthesizing antimicrobial peptides. Around midembryogenesis, the
 response in the yolk was diminished. Simultaneously,
 Cecropin expression became inducible in a large number
 of cells in the epidermis, demonstrating that late-stage embryos can
 synthesize their own antibiotics in the epidermis. This production
 likely serves to provide the hatching larva with an active
 antimicrobial barrier and protection against systemic infections.
 Cecropin expression in the yolk required the presence of
 a GATA site in the promoter as well as the involvement of the
 GATA-binding transcription factor Serpent (dGATAb). In contrast,
 neither the GATA site nor Serpent were necessary for
 Cecropin expression in the epidermis. Thus, the
 inducible immune responses in the yolk and in the epidermis can be
 uncoupled and call for distinct sets of transcription factors. Our data
 suggest that Serpent is involved in the distinction between a systemic
 response in the yolk/fat body and a local immune response in
 epithelial cells. In addition, the present study shows that signal
 transduction pathways controlling innate and epithelial defense
 reactions can be dissected genetically in Drosophila
 embryos.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phyllosphere microbial communities were evaluated on leaves of
 field-grown plant species by culture-dependent and -independent
 methods. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) with 16S rDNA
 primers generally indicated that microbial community structures were
 similar on different individuals of the same plant species, but unique
 on different plant species. Phyllosphere bacteria were identified from
 Citrus sinesis (cv. Valencia) by using DGGE analysis
 followed by cloning and sequencing of the dominant rDNA bands. Of the
 17 unique sequences obtained, database queries showed only four strains
 that had been described previously as phyllosphere bacteria. Five of
 the 17 sequences had 16S similarities lower than 90% to database
 entries, suggesting that they represent previously undescribed species.
 In addition, three fungal species were also identified. Very different
 16S rDNA DGGE banding profiles were obtained when replicate cv.
 Valencia leaf samples were cultured in BIOLOG EcoPlates for 4.5 days.
 All of these rDNA sequences had 97–100% similarity to those of known
 phyllosphere bacteria, but only two of them matched those identified by
 the culture independent DGGE analysis. Like other studied ecosystems,
 microbial phyllosphere communities therefore are more complex than
 previously thought, based on conventional culture-based methods.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Desert locusts in the solitarious phase were repeatedly touched on
 various body regions to identify the site of mechanosensory input that
 elicits the transition to gregarious phase behavior. The phase state of
 individual insects was measured after a 4-h period of localized
 mechanical stimulation, by using a behavioral assay based on multiple
 logistic regression analysis. A significant switch from solitarious to
 gregarious behavior occurred when the outer face of a hind femur had
 been stimulated, but mechanical stimulation of 10 other body regions
 did not result in significant behavioral change. We conclude that a
 primary cause of the switch in behavior that seeds the formation of
 locust swarms is individuals regularly touching others on the hind legs
 within populations that have become concentrated by the environment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In optimal foraging theory, search time is a key variable defining
 the value of a prey type. But the sensory-perceptual processes that
 constrain the search for food have rarely been considered. Here we
 evaluate the flight behavior of bumblebees (Bombus
 terrestris) searching for artificial flowers of various sizes
 and colors. When flowers were large, search times correlated well with
 the color contrast of the targets with their green foliage-type
 background, as predicted by a model of color opponent coding using
 inputs from the bees' UV, blue, and green receptors. Targets that made
 poor color contrast with their backdrop, such as white, UV-reflecting
 ones, or red flowers, took longest to detect, even though brightness
 contrast with the background was pronounced. When searching for small
 targets, bees changed their strategy in several ways. They flew
 significantly slower and closer to the ground, so increasing the
 minimum detectable area subtended by an object on the ground. In
 addition, they used a different neuronal channel for flower detection.
 Instead of color contrast, they used only the green receptor signal for
 detection. We relate these findings to temporal and spatial limitations
 of different neuronal channels involved in stimulus detection and
 recognition. Thus, foraging speed may not be limited only by factors
 such as prey density, flight energetics, and scramble competition. Our
 results show that understanding the behavioral ecology of foraging can
 substantially gain from knowledge about mechanisms of visual
 information processing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many prey modify traits in response to predation risk and this
 modification of traits can influence the prey's resource acquisition
 rate. A predator thus can have a “nonlethal” impact on prey that
 can lead to indirect effects on other community members. Such indirect
 interactions are termed trait-mediated indirect interactions because
 they arise from a predator's influence on prey traits, rather than
 prey density. Because such nonlethal predator effects are immediate,
 can influence the entire prey population, and can occur over the
 entire prey lifetime, we argue that nonlethal predator effects are
 likely to contribute strongly to the net indirect effects of predators
 (i.e., nonlethal effects may be comparable in magnitude to those
 resulting from killing prey). This prediction was supported by an
 experiment in which the indirect effects of a larval dragonfly
 (Anax sp.) predator on large bullfrog tadpoles
 (Rana catesbeiana), through nonlethal effects on
 competing small bullfrog tadpoles, were large relative to indirect
 effects caused by density reduction of the small tadpoles (the lethal
 effect). Treatments in which lethal and nonlethal effects of
 Anax were manipulated independently indicated that this
 result was robust for a large range of different combinations of lethal
 and nonlethal effects. Because many, if not most, prey modify traits in
 response to predators, our results suggest that the magnitude of
 interaction coefficients between two species may often be dynamically
 related to changes in other community members, and that many indirect
 effects previously attributed to the lethal effects of predators may
 instead be due to shifts in traits of surviving prey.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the beginning the surface of the Earth was extremely hot,
 because the Earth as we know it is the product of a collision between
 two planets, a collision that also created the Moon. Most of the heat
 within the very young Earth was lost quickly to space while the surface
 was still quite hot. As it cooled, the Earth's surface passed
 monotonically through every temperature regime between silicate vapor
 to liquid water and perhaps even to ice, eventually reaching an
 equilibrium with sunlight. Inevitably the surface passed through a time
 when the temperature was around 100°C at which modern thermophile
 organisms live. How long this warm epoch lasted depends on how long a
 thick greenhouse atmosphere can be maintained by heat flow from the
 Earth's interior, either directly as a supplement to insolation, or
 indirectly through its influence on the nascent carbonate cycle. In
 both cases, the duration of the warm epoch would have been controlled
 by processes within the Earth's interior where buffering by surface
 conditions played little part. A potentially evolutionarily significant
 warm period of between 105 and 107 years seems
 likely, which nonetheless was brief compared to the vast expanse of
 geological time.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Combination of molecular phylogenetic analyses of Chrysomelina
 beetles and chemical data of their defensive secretions indicate that
 two lineages independently developed, from an ancestral autogenous
 metabolism, an energetically efficient strategy that made the insect
 tightly dependent on the chemistry of the host plant. However, a
 lineage (the interrupta group) escaped this
 subordination through the development of a yet more derived mixed
 metabolism potentially compatible with a large number of new host-plant
 associations. Hence, these analyses on leaf beetles document a
 mechanism that can explain why high levels of specialization do not
 necessarily lead to “evolutionary dead ends.”
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phylogenies of Adh1 and Adh2 genes
 suggest that a widespread Mediterranean peony, Paeonia
 officinalis, is a homoploid hybrid species between two
 allotetraploid species, Paeonia peregrina and a member
 of the Paeonia arietina species group. Three
 phylogenetically distinct types of Adh sequences have
 been identified from both accessions of P. officinalis,
 of which two types are most closely related to the two homoeologous
 Adh loci of the P. arietina group and the
 remaining type came from one of the two Adh homoeologs
 of P. peregrina. The other Adh homoeolog
 of P. peregrina was apparently lost from the hybrid
 genome, possibly through backcrossing with the P.
 arietina group. This is a documentation of homoploid hybrid
 speciation between allotetraploid species in nature. This study
 suggests that hybrid speciation between allotetraploids can occur
 without an intermediate stage of genome diploidization or a further
 doubling of genome size.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cuticular hydrocarbon (CH) pheromones in
 Drosophila melanogaster exhibit strong geographic
 variation. African and Caribbean populations have a high ratio of 5,9
 heptacosadiene/7,11 heptacosadiene (the “High” CH type),
 whereas populations from all other areas have a low ratio (“Low”
 CH type). Based on previous genetic mapping, DNA markers were developed
 that localized the genetic basis of this CH polymorphism to within a
 13-kb region. We then carried out a hierarchical search for diagnostic
 nucleotide sites starting with four lines, and increasing to 24 and 43
 lines from a worldwide collection. Within the 13-kb region, only one
 variable site shows a complete concordance with the CH phenotype. This
 is a 16-bp deletion in the 5′ region of a desaturase gene
 (desat2) that was recently suggested to be responsible
 for the CH polymorphism on the basis of its expression [Dallerac, R.,
 Labeur, C., Jallon, J.-M., Knipple, D. C., Roelofs, W. L. &
 Wicker-Thomas, C. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 97,
 9449–9454]. The cosmopolitan Low type is derived from the ancestral
 High type, and DNA sequence variations suggest that the former spread
 worldwide with the aid of positive selection. Whether this CH variation
 could be a component of the sexual isolation between Zimbabwe and other
 cosmopolitan populations remains an interesting and unresolved
 question.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The best mating strategy for males differs from that of females,
 because females gain from mating with several males (polyandry), but
 males gain from monopolizing the females. As a consequence, males have
 evolved a variety of methods, such as the transfer of inhibitory
 substances from their accessory glands, to ensure exclusive paternity
 of the female's offspring, generally with detrimental effects on
 female fitness. Inhibitory substances have been identified as peptides
 or other specific molecules. Unfortunately, in social insects
 male-mating traits are investigated only poorly, although male social
 insects might have the same fundamental influence on female-mating
 behavior as found in other species. A recently developed technique for
 the artificial insemination of bumblebee queens allowed us to
 investigate which chemical compound in the mating plug of male
 bumblebees, Bombus terrestris L., prevents females
 (queens) from further mating. Surprisingly, we found that the active
 substance is linoleic acid, a ubiquitous and rather unspecific fatty
 acid. Contrary to mating plugs in other insect species, the bumblebee
 mating plug is highly efficient and allows the males to determine
 queen-mating frequencies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent studies have shown UV vision and markings to be important in
 vertebrates, particularly birds, where behavioral experiments have
 demonstrated its potential importance in sexual selection. However,
 there has been no genetic evidence that UV markings determine patterns
 of evolution among natural populations. Here we report molecular
 evidence that UV markings are associated with the pattern of gene flow
 in the Tenerife lizard (Gallotia galloti). This species
 has vicariance-induced, approximate east–west lineages in Tenerife
 closely congruent with the primary lineages of the sympatric gecko
 species. Against expectations, these molecular phylogeographic lineages
 (representing geological history) and isolation-by-distance do not
 appear to influence gene flow. Sexually mature males from populations
 either side of a latitudinal ecotone have different UV markings and
 gene flow appears to be linked to this difference in UV markings. It
 may be that these groups with different UV sexual markings mate
 assortatively, restricting the gene flow between them. This has
 implications for debate on the relative importance of vicariance and
 biotopes in influencing biodiversity, with this evidence supporting the
 latter.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) show great
 promise as therapies for colon cancer, a dispute remains regarding
 their mechanism of action. NSAIDs are known to inhibit cyclooxygenase
 (COX) enzymes, which convert arachidonic acid (AA) to prostaglandins
 (PGs). Therefore, NSAIDs may suppress tumorigenesis by inhibiting PG
 synthesis. However, various experimental studies have suggested the
 possibility of PG-independent mechanisms. Notably, disruption of the
 mouse group IIA secretory phospholipase A2 locus
 (Pla2g2a), a potential source of AA for COX-2, increases
 tumor number despite the fact that the mutation has been predicted to
 decrease PG production. Some authors have attempted to reconcile the
 results by suggesting that the level of the precursor (AA), not the
 products (PGs), is the critical factor. To clarify the role of AA in
 tumorigenesis, we have examined the effect of deleting the group IV
 cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) locus
 (Pla2g4). We report that ApcMin/+,
 cPLA2−/− mice show an 83% reduction in tumor
 number in the small intestine compared with littermates with genotypes
 ApcMin/+, cPLA2+/− and
 ApcMin/+, cPLA2+/+. This tumor
 phenotype parallels that of COX-2 knockout mice, suggesting that
 cPLA2 is the predominant source of AA for COX-2 in the
 intestine. The protective effect of cPLA2 deletion is thus
 most likely attributed to a decrease in the AA supply to COX-2 and a
 resultant decrease in PG synthesis. The tumorigenic effect of
 sPLA2 mutations is likely to be through a completely
 different pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rolling circle amplification (RCA) is a surface-anchored DNA
 replication reaction that can be exploited to visualize single
 molecular recognition events. Here we report the use of RCA to
 visualize target DNA sequences as small as 50 nts in peripheral blood
 lymphocytes or in stretched DNA fibers. Three unique target sequences
 within the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene
 could be detected simultaneously in interphase nuclei, and could be
 ordered in a linear map in stretched DNA. Allele-discriminating
 oligonucleotide probes in conjunction with RCA also were used to
 discriminate wild-type and mutant alleles in the cystic fibrosis
 transmembrane conductance regulator, p53, BRCA-1, and Gorlin syndrome
 genes in the nuclei of cultured cells or in DNA fibers. These
 observations demonstrate that signal amplification by RCA can be
 coupled to nucleic acid hybridization and multicolor fluorescence
 imaging to detect single nucleotide changes in DNA within a cytological
 context or in single DNA molecules. This provides a means for direct
 physical haplotyping and the analysis of somatic mutations on a
 cell-by-cell basis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have undertaken an extensive screen to identify
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes whose products are
 involved in cell cycle progression. We report the identification of 113
 genes, including 19 hypothetical ORFs, which confer arrest or delay in
 specific compartments of the cell cycle when overexpressed. The
 collection of genes identified by this screen overlaps with those
 identified in loss-of-function cdc screens but also
 includes genes whose products have not previously been implicated in
 cell cycle control. Through analysis of strains lacking these
 hypothetical ORFs, we have identified a variety of new
 CDC and checkpoint genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Etoposide, a topoisomerase II inhibitor widely used in cancer
 therapy, is suspected of inducing secondary tumors and affecting the
 genetic constitution of germ cells. A better understanding of the
 potential heritable risk of etoposide is needed to provide sound
 genetic counseling to cancer patients treated with this drug in their
 reproductive years. We used a mouse model to investigate the effects
 of clinical doses of etoposide on the induction of chromosomal
 abnormalities in spermatocytes and their transmission to zygotes by
 using a combination of chromosome painting and
 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining. High frequencies of
 chromosomal aberrations were detected in spermatocytes within 64 h
 after treatment when over 30% of the metaphases analyzed had
 structural aberrations (P < 0.01). Significant
 increases in the percentages of zygotic metaphases with structural
 aberrations were found only for matings that sampled treated pachytene
 (28-fold, P < 0.0001) and preleptotene
 spermatocytes (13-fold, P < 0.001). Etoposide
 induced mostly acentric fragments and deletions, types of aberrations
 expected to result in embryonic lethality, because they represent loss
 of genetic material. Chromosomal exchanges were rare. Etoposide
 treatment of pachytene cells induced aneuploidy in both spermatocytes
 (18-fold, P < 0.01) and zygotes (8-fold,
 P < 0.05). We know of no other report of an agent
 for which paternal exposure leads to an increased incidence of
 aneuploidy in the offspring. Thus, we found that therapeutic doses of
 etoposide affect primarily meiotic germ cells, producing unstable
 structural aberrations and aneuploidy, effects that are transmitted to
 the progeny. This finding suggests that individuals who undergo
 chemotherapy with etoposide may be at a higher risk for abnormal
 reproductive outcomes especially within the 2 months after
 chemotherapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The homeotic genes controlling segment identity in
 Drosophila are repressed by the Polycomb
 group of genes (PcG) and are activated by genes of the
 trithorax group (trxG). An F1 screen for
 dominant enhancers of Polycomb yielded a point mutation
 in the heat shock cognate gene, hsc4, along with
 mutations corresponding to several known PcG loci. The new mutation is
 a more potent enhancer of Polycomb phenotypes than an
 apparent null allele of hsc4 is, although even the null
 allele occasionally displays homeotic phenotypes associated with the
 PcG. Previous biochemical results had suggested that HSC4 might
 interact with BRAHMA, a trxG member. Further analyses now show that
 there is no physical or genetic interaction between HSC4 and the Brahma
 complex. HSC4 might be needed for the proper folding of a component of
 the Polycomb repression complex, or it may be a
 functional member of that complex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
NY-ESO-1 is a tumor-specific shared antigen with distinctive
 immunogenicity. Both CD8+ T cells and class-switched Ab
 responses have been detected from patients with cancer. In this study,
 a CD4+ T cell line was generated from peripheral blood
 mononuclear cells of a melanoma patient and was shown to recognize
 NY-ESO-1 peptides presented by HLA-DP4, a dominant MHC class II allele
 expressed in 43–70% of Caucasians. The ESO p157–170 peptide
 containing the core region of DP4-restricted T cell epitope was present
 in a number of tumor cell lines tested and found to be recognized by
 both CD4+ T cells as well as HLA-A2-restricted
 CD8+ T cells. Thus, the ESO p157–170 epitope represents a
 potential candidate for cancer vaccines aimed at generating both
 CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses. More
 importantly, 16 of 17 melanoma patients who developed Ab against
 NY-ESO-1 were found to be HLA-DP4-positive. CD4+ T cells
 specific for the NY-ESO-1 epitopes were generated from 5 of 6 melanoma
 patients with NY-ESO-1 Ab. In contrast, no specific DP4-restricted T
 cells were generated from two patients without detectable NY-ESO-1 Ab.
 These results suggested that NY-ESO-1-specific DP4-restricted
 CD4+ T cells were closely associated with NY-ESO-1 Ab
 observed in melanoma patients and might play an important role in
 providing help for activating B cells for NY-ESO-1-specific Ab
 production.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Substance P (SP) is a potent modulator of neuroimmunoregulation. We
 recently reported that human immune cells express SP and its receptor.
 We have now investigated the possible role that SP and its receptor
 plays in HIV infection of human mononuclear phagocytes. SP enhanced HIV
 replication in human blood-isolated mononuclear phagocytes, whereas the
 nonpeptide SP antagonist (CP-96,345) potently inhibited HIV
 infectivity of these cells in a concentration-dependent fashion.
 CP-96,345 prevented the formation of typical giant syncytia induced by
 HIV Bal strain replication in these cells. This inhibitory effect of
 CP-96,345 was because of the antagonism of neurokinin-1 receptor, a
 primary SP receptor. Both CP-96,345 and anti-SP antibody inhibited
 SP-enhanced HIV replication in monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM).
 Among HIV strains tested (both prototype and primary isolates), only
 the R5 strains (Bal, ADA, BL-6, and CSF-6) that use the CCR5 coreceptor
 for entry into MDM were significantly inhibited by CP-96,345; in
 contrast, the X4 strain (UG024), which uses CXCR4 as its coreceptor,
 was not inhibited. In addition, the M-tropic ADA
 (CCR5-dependent)-pseudotyped HIV infection of MDM was markedly
 inhibited by CP-96,345, whereas murine leukemia virus-pseudotyped HIV
 was not affected, indicating that the major effect of CP-96,345 is
 regulated by Env-determined early events in HIV infection of MDM.
 CP-96,345 significantly down-regulated CCR5 expression in MDM at both
 protein and mRNA levels. Thus, SP–neurokinin-1 receptor interaction
 may play an important role in the regulation of CCR5 expression in MDM,
 affecting the R5 HIV strain infection of MDM.
DOC DONE!Abstract
L-selectin mediates homing of lymphocytes to lymph nodes (LN).
 Transgenic mice that express rat insulin promoter regulated simian
 virus 40 Tag (RIP-Tag) develop large, local cancers that metastasize to
 liver but not LN. To test whether this lack of LN metastases reflects
 their absence from the circulation, transgenic mice were produced that
 express Tag (T), L-selectin (L), and Escherichia coli
 LacZ (Z), in pancreatic β cells. LTZ mice developed insulinomas that
 specifically had LN metastases; metastasis was blocked by an anti
 L-selectin mAb. LacZ+ tumor cells from these LN homed to
 secondary LN upon transfer. These results suggest that the highly
 vascularized islet carcinomas are shedding tumor cells into the
 bloodstream, which is a necessary but insufficient condition for
 metastasis to occur; L-selectin can facilitate homing of such tumor
 cells to LN, resulting in metastasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Langerhans cells are a subset of dendritic cells (DCs) found in the
 human epidermis with unique morphological and molecular properties that
 enable their function as “sentinels” of the immune system. DCs
 are pivotal in the initiation and regulation of primary MHC class I
 restricted T lymphocyte immune responses and are able to present both
 endogenous and exogenous antigen onto class I molecules.
 Here, we study the MHC class I presentation pathway following
 activation of immature, CD34-derived human Langerhans cells by
 lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS induces an increase in all components of
 the MHC class I pathway including the transporter for antigen
 presentation (TAP), tapasin and ERp57, and the immunoproteasome
 subunits LMP2 and LMP7. Moreover, in CD34-derived Langerhans cells, the
 rapid increase in expression of MHC class I molecules seen at the cell
 surface following LPS activation is because of mobilization of MHC
 class I molecules from HLA-DM positive endosomal compartments, a
 pathway not seen in monocyte-derived DCs. Mobilization of class I from
 this compartment is primaquine sensitive and brefeldin A insensitive.
 These data demonstrate the regulation of the class I pathway in concert
 with the maturation of the CD34-derived Langerhans cells and suggest
 potential sites for antigen loading of class I proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antigens of pathogenic microbes that mimic autoantigens are thought
 to be responsible for the activation of autoreactive T cells. Viral
 infections have been associated with the development of the
 neuroendocrine autoimmune diseases type 1 diabetes and stiff-man
 syndrome, but the mechanism is unknown. These diseases share glutamic
 acid decarboxylase (GAD65) as a major autoantigen. We screened
 synthetic peptide libraries dedicated to bind to HLA-DR3, which
 predisposes to both diseases, using clonal CD4+ T cells
 reactive to GAD65 isolated from a prediabetic stiff-man syndrome
 patient. Here we show that these GAD65-specific T cells crossreact with
 a peptide of the human cytomegalovirus (hCMV) major DNA-binding
 protein. This peptide was identified after database searching with a
 recognition pattern that had been deduced from the library studies.
 Furthermore, we showed that hCMV-derived epitope can be naturally
 processed by dendritic cells and recognized by GAD65 reactive T cells.
 Thus, hCMV may be involved in the loss of T cell tolerance to
 autoantigen GAD65 by a mechanism of molecular mimicry leading to
 autoimmunity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD4+ T lymphocyte clones, generated from mice immunized
 with the methylcholanthrene-induced fibrosarcoma Meth A
 (H-2d), are restricted by I-Ed and recognize a
 unique antigen on Meth A. The antigen has been purified and
 characterized as the ribosomal protein L11. The antigenic epitope is
 contained within the sequence EYELRKHNFSDTG and is
 generated by substitution of Asn by His (italic) caused by a single
 point mutation. The tumor contains the wild-type and the mutated
 alleles. Immunization of BALB/cJ mice with the mutated epitope but
 not with the wild-type epitope protects mice against a subsequent
 challenge with the Meth A sarcoma. Adoptive transfer of
 CD4+ clones into BALB/c mice renders the mice
 specifically resistant to Meth A sarcoma. The mutated L11 epitope is
 thus shown to be an immunoprotective epitope in vivo by
 several criteria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Congenital hypothyroidism and the thyroid hormone (T3)
 resistance syndrome are associated with severe central nervous system
 (CNS) dysfunction. Because thyroid hormones are thought to act
 principally by binding to their nuclear receptors (TRs), it is
 unexplained why TR knock-out animals are reported to have normal CNS
 structure and function. To investigate this discrepancy further, a
 T3 binding mutation was introduced into the mouse TR-β
 locus by homologous recombination. Because of this T3
 binding defect, the mutant TR constitutively interacts with corepressor
 proteins and mimics the hypothyroid state, regardless of the
 circulating thyroid hormone concentrations. Severe abnormalities in
 cerebellar development and function and abnormal hippocampal gene
 expression and learning were found. These findings demonstrate the
 specific and deleterious action of unliganded TR in the brain and
 suggest the importance of corepressors bound to TR in the pathogenesis
 of hypothyroidism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Low folate intake as well as alterations in folate metabolism as a
 result of polymorphisms in the enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate
 reductase (MTHFR) have been associated with an increased
 incidence of neural tube defects, vascular disease, and some cancers.
 Polymorphic variants of MTHFR lead to enhanced thymidine
 pools and better quality DNA synthesis that could afford some
 protection from the development of leukemias, particularly those with
 translocations. We now report associations of MTHFR
 polymorphisms in three subgroups of pediatric leukemias: infant
 lymphoblastic or myeloblastic leukemias with MLL
 rearrangements and childhood lymphoblastic leukemias with either
 TEL-AML1 fusions or hyperdiploid
 karyotypes. Pediatric leukemia patients (n = 253
 total) and healthy newborn controls (n = 200) were
 genotyped for MTHFR polymorphisms at nucleotides 677
 (C→T) and 1,298 (A→C). A significant association for carriers of
 C677T was demonstrated for leukemias with
 MLL translocations (MLL+,
 n = 37) when compared with controls [adjusted odd
 ratios (OR) = 0.36 with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of
 0.15–0.85; P = 0.017]. This protective effect was
 not evident for A1298C alleles (OR = 1.14). In
 contrast, associations for A1298C homozygotes (CC;
 OR = 0.26 with a 95% CI of 0.07–0.81) and C677T
 homozygotes (TT; OR = 0.49 with a 95% CI of 0.20–1.17) were
 observed for hyperdiploid leukemias (n = 138). No
 significant associations were evident for either polymorphism with
 TEL-AML1+ leukemias
 (n = 78). These differences in allelic associations
 may point to discrete attributes of the two alleles in their ability to
 alter folate and one-carbon metabolite pools and impact after DNA
 synthesis and methylation pathways, but should be viewed cautiously
 pending larger follow-up studies. The data provide evidence that
 molecularly defined subgroups of pediatric leukemias have different
 etiologies and also suggest a role of folate in the development of
 childhood leukemia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Members of the Snail family of zinc finger transcription factors
 are known to play critical roles in neurogenesis in invertebrates, but
 none of these factors has been linked to vertebrate neuronal
 differentiation. We report the isolation of a gene encoding a mammalian
 Snail family member that is restricted to the nervous system. Human and
 murine Scratch (Scrt) share 81% and 69% identity to
 Drosophila Scrt and the
 Caenorhabditis elegans neuronal
 antiapoptotic protein, CES-1, respectively, across the five
 zinc finger domain. Expression of mammalian Scrt is predominantly
 confined to the brain and spinal cord, appearing in newly
 differentiating, postmitotic neurons and persisting into postnatal
 life. Additional expression is seen in the retina and, significantly,
 in neuroendocrine (NE) cells of the lung. In a parallel fashion, we
 detect hScrt expression in lung cancers with NE features, especially
 small cell lung cancer. hScrt shares the capacity of other Snail family
 members to bind to E-box enhancer motifs, which are targets of basic
 helix–loop–helix (bHLH) transcription factors. We show that hScrt
 directly antagonizes the function of heterodimers of the proneural bHLH
 protein achaete-scute homolog-1 and E12, leading to active
 transcriptional repression at E-box motifs. Thus, Scrt has the
 potential to function in newly differentiating, postmitotic neurons and
 in cancers with NE features by modulating the action of bHLH
 transcription factors critical for neuronal differentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Longitudinal bone growth is determined by endochondral ossification
 that occurs as chondrocytes in the cartilaginous growth plate undergo
 proliferation, hypertrophy, cell death, and osteoblastic replacement.
 The natriuretic peptide family consists of three structurally related
 endogenous ligands, atrial, brain, and C-type natriuretic
 peptides (ANP, BNP, and CNP), and is thought to be involved in a
 variety of homeostatic processes. To investigate the physiological
 significance of CNP in vivo, we generated mice with
 targeted disruption of CNP (Nppc−/− mice).
 The Nppc−/− mice show severe dwarfism as a
 result of impaired endochondral ossification. They are all viable
 perinatally, but less than half can survive during postnatal
 development. The skeletal phenotypes are histologically similar to
 those seen in patients with achondroplasia, the most common genetic
 form of human dwarfism. Targeted expression of CNP in the growth plate
 chondrocytes can rescue the skeletal defect of
 Nppc−/− mice and allow their prolonged
 survival. This study demonstrates that CNP acts locally as a positive
 regulator of endochondral ossification in vivo and
 suggests its pathophysiological and therapeutic implication in some
 forms of skeletal dysplasia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The recently discovered aging-dependent large accumulation of point
 mutations in the human fibroblast mtDNA control region raised the
 question of their occurrence in postmitotic tissues. In the present
 work, analysis of biopsied or autopsied human skeletal muscle revealed
 the absence or only minimal presence of those mutations. By contrast,
 surprisingly, most of 26 individuals 53 to 92 years old, without a
 known history of neuromuscular disease, exhibited at mtDNA replication
 control sites in muscle an accumulation of two new point mutations,
 i.e., A189G and T408A, which were absent or marginally present in 19
 individuals younger than 34 years. These two mutations were not found
 in fibroblasts from 22 subjects 64 to 101 years of age (T408A), or were
 present only in three subjects in very low amounts (A189G).
 Furthermore, in several older individuals exhibiting an accumulation in
 muscle of one or both of these mutations, they were nearly absent in
 other tissues, whereas the most frequent fibroblast-specific mutation
 (T414G) was present in skin, but not in muscle. Among eight additional
 individuals exhibiting partial denervation of their biopsied muscle,
 four subjects >80 years old had accumulated the two muscle-specific
 point mutations, which were, conversely, present at only very low
 levels in four subjects ≤40 years old. The striking tissue specificity
 of the muscle mtDNA mutations detected here and their mapping at
 critical sites for mtDNA replication strongly point to the involvement
 of a specific mutagenic machinery and to the functional relevance of
 these mutations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The present work develops and implements a biomathematical
 statement of how reciprocal connectivity drives stress-adaptive
 homeostasis in the corticotropic (hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal) axis.
 In initial analyses with this interactive construct, we test six
 specific a priori hypotheses of mechanisms linking
 circadian (24-h) rhythmicity to pulsatile secretory output. This
 formulation offers a dynamic framework for later statistical estimation
 of unobserved in vivo neurohormone secretion and
 within-axis, dose-responsive interfaces in health and disease.
 Explication of the core dynamics of the stress-responsive corticotropic
 axis based on secure physiological precepts should help to unveil new
 biomedical hypotheses of stressor-specific system failure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Prion replication in spleen and neuroinvasion after i.p.
 inoculation of mice is impaired in forms of immunodeficiency where
 mature B lymphocytes are lacking. In spleens of wild-type mice,
 infectivity is associated with B and T lymphocytes and stroma but not
 with circulating lymphocytes. We generated transgenic prion protein
 knockout mice overexpressing prion protein in B lymphocytes and found
 that they failed to accumulate prions in spleen after i.p. inoculation.
 We conclude that splenic B lymphocytes are not prion-replication
 competent and that they acquire prions from other cells, most likely
 follicular dendritic cells with which they closely associate and whose
 maturation depends on them.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have attempted to determine whether loss of mtDNA and
 respiratory chain function result in apoptosis in
 vivo. Apoptosis was studied in embryos with homozygous
 disruption of the mitochondrial transcription factor A gene
 (Tfam) and tissue-specific Tfam knockout
 animals with severe respiratory chain deficiency in the heart. We found
 massive apoptosis in Tfam knockout embryos at
 embryonic day (E) 9.5 and increased apoptosis in the heart of
 the tissue-specific Tfam knockouts. Furthermore,
 mtDNA-less (ρ0) cell lines were susceptible to
 apoptosis induced by different stimuli in vitro.
 The data presented here provide in vivo evidence that
 respiratory chain deficiency predisposes cells to apoptosis,
 contrary to previous assumptions based on in vitro
 studies of cultured cells. These results suggest that increased
 apoptosis is a pathogenic event in human mtDNA mutation
 disorders. The finding that respiratory chain deficiency is associated
 with increased in vivo apoptosis may have
 important therapeutic implications for human disease. Respiratory chain
 deficiency and cell loss and/or apoptosis have been
 associated with neurodegeneration, heart failure, diabetes mellitus,
 and aging. Furthermore, chemotherapy and radiation treatment of cancer
 are intended to induce apoptosis in tumor cells. It would
 therefore be of interest to determine whether manipulation of
 respiratory chain function can be used to inhibit or enhance
 apoptosis in these conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Erythropoietin (EPO) promotes neuronal survival after hypoxia and
 other metabolic insults by largely unknown mechanisms.
 Apoptosis and necrosis have been proposed as mechanisms of
 cellular demise, and either could be the target of actions of EPO. This
 study evaluates whether antiapoptotic mechanisms can account
 for the neuroprotective actions of EPO. Systemic administration of EPO
 (5,000 units/kg of body weight, i.p.) after middle-cerebral artery
 occlusion in rats dramatically reduces the volume of infarction 24
 h later, in concert with an almost complete reduction in the number of
 terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling of
 neurons within the ischemic penumbra. In both pure and mixed neuronal
 cultures, EPO (0.1–10 units/ml) also inhibits apoptosis
 induced by serum deprivation or kainic acid exposure. Protection
 requires pretreatment, consistent with the induction of a gene
 expression program, and is sustained for 3 days without the continued
 presence of EPO. EPO (0.3 units/ml) also protects hippocampal neurons
 against hypoxia-induced neuronal death through activation of
 extracellular signal-regulated kinases and protein kinase
 Akt-1/protein kinase B. The action of EPO is not limited to directly
 promoting cell survival, as EPO is trophic but not mitogenic in
 cultured neuronal cells. These data suggest that inhibition of neuronal
 apoptosis underlies short latency protective effects of EPO
 after cerebral ischemia and other brain injuries. The neurotrophic
 actions suggest there may be longer-latency effects as well. Evaluation
 of EPO, a compound established as clinically safe, as neuroprotective
 therapy in acute brain injury is further supported.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are essential
 components required for normal cellular function and have been shown to
 exert many preventive and therapeutic actions. The amount of
 n−3 PUFAs is insufficient in most Western people,
 whereas the level of n−6 PUFAs is relatively too high,
 with an n−6/n−3 ratio of >18. These
 two classes of PUFAs are metabolically and functionally distinct and
 often have important opposing physiological functions; their balance is
 important for homeostasis and normal development. Elevating tissue
 concentrations of n−3 PUFAs in mammals relies on
 chronic dietary intake of fat rich in n−3 PUFAs,
 because mammalian cells lack enzymatic activities necessary either to
 synthesize the precursor of n−3 PUFAs or to convert
 n−6 to n−3 PUFAs. Here we report that
 adenovirus-mediated introduction of the
 Caenorhabditis elegans
fat-1 gene encoding an n−3 fatty acid
 desaturase into mammalian cells can quickly and effectively elevate the
 cellular n−3 PUFA contents and dramatically balance the
 ratio of n−6/n−3 PUFAs. Heterologous
 expression of the fat-1 gene in rat cardiac myocytes
 rendered cells capable of converting various n−6 PUFAs
 to the corresponding n−3 PUFAs, and changed the
 n−6/n−3 ratio from about 15:1 to 1:1.
 In addition, an eicosanoid derived from n−6 PUFA (i.e.,
 arachidonic acid) was reduced significantly in the transgenic cells.
 This study demonstrates an effective approach to modifying fatty acid
 composition of mammalian cells and also provides a basis for potential
 applications of this gene transfer in experimental and clinical
 settings.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, or prion diseases, are
 fatal degenerative disorders of the central nervous system that affect
 humans and animals. Prions are nonconventional infectious agents whose
 replication depends on the host prion protein (PrP). Transmission of
 prions to cultured cells has proved to be a particularly difficult
 task, and with a few exceptions, their experimental propagation relies
 on inoculation to laboratory animals. Here, we report on the
 development of a permanent cell line supporting propagation of natural
 sheep scrapie. This model was obtained by stable expression of a
 tetracycline-regulatable ovine PrP gene in a rabbit epithelial cell
 line. After exposure to scrapie agent, cultures were repeatedly found
 to accumulate high levels of abnormal PrP (PrPres). Cell extracts
 induced a scrapie-like disease in transgenic mice overexpressing ovine
 PrP. These cultures remained healthy and stably infected upon
 subpassaging. Such data show that (i) cultivated cells
 from a nonneuronal origin can efficiently replicate prions; and
 (ii) species barrier can be crossed ex
 vivo through the expression of a relevant PrP gene. This
 approach led to the ex vivo propagation of a natural
 transmissible spongiform encephalopathy agent (i.e., without previous
 experimental adaptation to rodents) and might be applied to human or
 bovine prions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ovarian carcinomas are thought to arise from cells of the ovarian
 surface epithelium by mechanisms that are poorly understood. Molecules
 associated with neoplasia are potentially immunogenic, but few ovarian
 tumor antigens have been identified. Because ovarian carcinomas can
 elicit humoral responses in patients, we searched for novel tumor
 antigens by immunoscreening a cDNA expression library with ovarian
 cancer patient serum. Seven clones corresponding to the homeobox gene
 HOXB7 were isolated. ELISAs using purified recombinant
 HOXB7 protein revealed significant serologic reactivity to HOXB7 in 13
 of 39 ovarian cancer patients and in only one of 29 healthy women
 (P < 0.0001). Ovarian carcinomas were found to
 express HOXB7 at markedly higher levels than normal
 ovarian surface epithelium, suggesting that immunogenicity of HOXB7 in
 patients could be associated with its elevated expression in ovarian
 carcinomas. Overexpression of HOXB7 in immortalized
 normal ovarian surface epithelial cells dramatically enhanced cellular
 proliferation. Furthermore, HOXB7 overexpression
 increased intracellular accumulation and secretion of basic fibroblast
 growth factor, a potent angiogenic and mitogenic factor. These results
 reveal HOXB7 as a tumor antigen whose up-regulated expression could
 play a significant role in promoting growth and development of ovarian
 carcinomas.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chronic administration of the atypical antipsychotic drug,
 clozapine, to rodents has been shown to increase the concentration of
 apolipoprotein D (apoD) in several area of the brain, suggesting that
 apoD could be involved in the therapeutic effects of antipsychotic
 drugs and/or the pathology of psychotic illnesses. Here, we measured
 a significant decrease in the concentration of apoD in serum samples
 from schizophrenic patients. In contrast, apoD levels were
 significantly increased (92–287%) in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
 (Brodmann's area 9) of schizophrenic and bipolar subjects. Elevated
 levels of apoD expression were also observed in the caudate of
 schizophrenic and bipolar subjects (68–89%). No differences in apoD
 immunoreactivity were detected in occipital cortex (Brodmann's area
 18) in either group, or in the hippocampus, substantia nigra, or
 cerebellum of the schizophrenic group. The low serum concentrations of
 apoD observed in these patients supports recent hypotheses involving
 systemic insufficiencies in lipid metabolism/signaling in
 schizophrenia. Elevation of apoD expression selectively within central
 nervous system regions implicated in the pathology of these
 neuropsychiatric disorders suggests a focal compensatory response that
 neuroleptic drug regimens may augment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stimulation of endothelial cells by various inflammatory mediators
 leads to release of Weibel–Palade bodies and therefore to exocytosis
 of both P-selectin (adhesion receptor for leukocytes) and von
 Willebrand factor (vWf) (platelet ligand). The potential role of vWf in
 leukocyte recruitment was investigated with the use of vWf-deficient
 mice. We report a strong reduction of leukocyte rolling in venules of
 vWf-deficient mice. Similarly, vWf deficiency led to a decrease in
 neutrophil recruitment in a cytokine-induced meningitis model as well
 as in early skin wounds. In all instances with an antibody that
 preferentially recognizes plasma membrane P-selectin, we observed a
 dramatic reduction in P-selectin expression at the cell surface of
 vWf-deficient endothelium. With confocal microscopy, we found that the
 typical rodlike shape of the Weibel–Palade body is missing in vWf
 −/− endothelial cells and that part of the P-selectin content in
 the vWf −/− cells colocalized with LAMP-1, a lysosomal marker.
 However, intracellular P-selectin levels were similar in tumor necrosis
 factor α- and lipopolysaccharide-activated cells of both genotypes.
 We conclude that the absence of vWf, as found in severe von Willebrand
 disease, leads to a defect in Weibel–Palade body formation. This
 defect results in decreased P-selectin translocation to the cell
 surface and reduced leukocyte recruitment in early phases of
 inflammation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tissue factor (TF), the initiator of blood coagulation and
 thrombosis, is up-regulated after vascular injury and in
 atherosclerotic states. Systemic administration of recombinant TF
 pathway inhibitor (TFPI) has been reported to decrease intimal
 hyperplasia after vascular injury and also to suppress systemic
 mechanisms of blood coagulation and thrombosis. Here we report that, in
 heritable hyperlipidemic Watanabe rabbits, adenoviral gene transfer of
 TFPI to balloon-injured atherosclerotic arteries reduced the extent of
 intimal hyperplasia by 43% (P < 0.05) compared
 with a control vector used at identical titer (1 ×
 1010 plaque-forming units/ml). Platelet aggregation and
 coagulation studies performed 7 days after local gene transfer of TFPI
 failed to show any impairment in systemic hemostasis. At time of
 sacrifice, 4 weeks after vascular injury, the 10 Ad-TFPI
 treated carotid arteries were free of thrombi, whereas two
 control-treated arteries were occluded (P, not
 significant). These findings suggest that TFPI overexpressed in
 atherosclerotic arteries can regulate hyperplastic response to injury
 in the absence of changes in the hemostatic system, establishing a role
 for local TF regulation as target for gene transfer-based
 antirestenosis therapies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report here that the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK)
 affects the molecular fate of the recombinant adeno-associated virus
 (rAAV) genome in skeletal muscle. rAAV-human α1-antitrypsin
 (rAAV-hAAT) vectors were delivered by intramuscular injection to either
 C57BL/6 (DNA-PKcs+) or C57BL/6-SCID [severe combined
 immunodeficient (SCID), DNA-PKcs−] mice. In both strains,
 high levels of transgene expression were sustained for up to 1 year
 after a single injection. Southern blot analysis showed that rAAV
 genomes persisted as linear episomes for more than 1 year in SCID mice,
 whereas only circular episomal forms were observed in the C57BL/6
 strain. These results indicate that DNA-PK is involved in the formation
 of circular rAAV episomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Lethal factor is a protease, one component of Bacillus
 anthracis exotoxin, which cleaves many of the mitogen-activated
 protein kinase kinases (MEKs). Given the importance of MEK signaling in
 tumorigenesis, we assessed the effects of anthrax lethal toxin (LeTx)
 on tumor cells. LeTx was very effective in inhibiting mitogen-activated
 protein kinase activation in V12 H-ras-transformed NIH 3T3 cells.
 In vitro, treatment of transformed cells with LeTx
 caused them to revert to a nontransformed morphology, and inhibited
 their abilities to form colonies in soft agar and to invade Matrigel
 without markedly affecting cell proliferation. In vivo,
 LeTx inhibited growth of ras-transformed cells implanted in athymic
 nude mice (in some cases causing tumor regression) at concentrations
 that caused no apparent animal toxicity. Unexpectedly, LeTx also
 greatly decreased tumor neovascularization. These results demonstrate
 that LeTx potently inhibits ras-mediated tumor growth and is a
 potential antitumor therapeutic.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present evidence that a bacterial signal transduction cascade
 that couples morphogenesis with cell cycle progression is regulated by
 dynamic localization of its components. Previous studies have
 implicated two histidine kinases, DivJ and PleC, and the response
 regulator, DivK, in the regulation of morphogenesis in the dimorphic
 bacterium Caulobacter crescentus. Here, we show that the
 cytoplasmic response regulator, DivK, exhibits a dynamic, cyclical
 localization that culminates in asymmetric distribution of DivK within
 the two cell types that are characteristic of the
 Caulobacter cell cycle; DivK is dispersed throughout the
 cytoplasm of the progeny swarmer cell and is localized to the pole of
 the stalked cell. The membrane-bound DivJ and PleC histidine kinases,
 which are asymmetrically localized at the opposite poles of the
 predivisional cell, control the temporal and spatial localization of
 DivK. DivJ mediates DivK targeting to the poles whereas PleC controls
 its release from one of the poles at times and places that are
 consistent with the activities and location of DivJ and PleC in the
 late predivisional cell. Thus, dynamic changes in subcellular location
 of multiple components of a signal transduction cascade may constitute
 a novel mode of prokaryotic regulation to generate and maintain
 cellular asymmetry.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Reovirus genome segment S1 encodes protein σ1, which is the
 receptor binding protein, modulates tissue tropism, and specifies the
 nature of the antiviral immune response. It makes up less than 2% of
 reovirus particles and is synthesized in very small amounts in infected
 cells. Any antiviral strategy aimed at reducing specifically the
 expression of this genome segment should, in principle, reduce the
 infectivity of the virus. To test this hypothesis, we have assembled
 two hammer-head motif-containing ribozymes (Rzs) targeted to cleave at
 the conserved B and C domains of the reovirus s1 RNA.
 Protein-independent but Mg2+-dependent
 sequence-specific cleavage of s1 RNA was achieved by both the Rzs
 in trans. Cells that transiently express these Rzs, when challenged
 with reovirus, were protected against the cytopathic effects caused by
 the virus. This protection correlated with the specific intracellular
 reduction of s1 transcripts that was due to their cleavage by the Rzs.
 Rz-treated cells that were challenged with reovirus showed almost
 complete disappearance of protein σ1 without significantly altering
 the levels of the other reovirus structural proteins. Thus, Rzs,
 besides acting as antiviral agents, could be exploited as biological
 tools to delineate specific functions of target genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bacteriophage lytic enzymes quickly destroy the cell wall of
 the host bacterium to release progeny phage. Because such lytic enzymes
 specifically kill the species in which they were produced, they may
 represent an effective way to control pathogenic bacteria without
 disturbing normal microflora. In this report, we studied a murein
 hydrolase from the streptococcal bacteriophage C1 termed
 lysin. This enzyme is specific for groups A, C, and E streptococci,
 with little or no activity toward several oral streptococci or other
 commensal organisms tested. Using purified lysin in
 vitro, we show that 1,000 units (10 ng) of enzyme is sufficient
 to sterilize a culture of ≈107 group A streptococci
 within 5 seconds. When a single dose of lysin (250 units) is first
 added to the oral cavity of mice, followed by 107 live
 group A streptococci, it provides protection from colonization (28.5%
 infected, n = 21) compared with controls without
 lysin (70.5% infected, n = 17)
 (P < 0.03). Furthermore, when lysin (500 units)
 was given orally to 9 heavily colonized mice, no detectable
 streptococci were observed 2 h after lysin treatment. In all,
 these studies show that lysin represents a unique murein hydrolase that
 has a rapid lethal effect both in vitro and in
 vivo on group A streptococci, without affecting other
 indigenous microorganisms analyzed. This general approach may be used
 to either eliminate or reduce streptococci from the upper respiratory
 mucosal epithelium of either carriers or infected individuals, thus
 reducing associated disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Retrovirus infection is initiated by receptor-dependent fusion of
 the envelope to the cell membrane. The modular organization of the
 envelope protein of C type retroviruses has been exploited to
 investigate how binding of the surface subunit (SU) to receptor
 triggers fusion mediated by the transmembrane (TM) subunit. We show
 that deletion of the receptor-binding domain (RBD) from SU of Friend
 murine leukemia virus (Fr-MLV) abolishes infection that is restored by
 supplying RBD as a soluble protein. Infection by this mechanism remains
 dependent on receptor expression. When membrane attachment of the virus
 lacking RBD is reestablished by inserting the hormone erythropoietin,
 infection remains dependent on the RBD/receptor complex. However,
 infection increases 50-fold to 5 × 105 units/ml on
 cells that also express the erythropoietin receptor. Soluble RBD from
 Fr-MLV also restores infection by amphotropic and xenotropic MLVs in
 which RBD is deleted. These experiments demonstrate that RBD has two
 functions: mediating virus attachment and activating the fusion
 mechanism. In addition, they indicate that receptor engagement triggers
 fusion by promoting a subgroup-independent functional interaction
 between RBD and the remainder of SU and/or TM.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is strongly linked
 to Kaposi's sarcoma, primary effusion lymphomas, and a subset of
 multicentric Castleman's disease. The mechanism by which this virus
 establishes latency and reactivation is unknown. KSHV Lyta (lytic
 transactivator, also named KSHV/Rta), mainly encoded by the ORF 50
 gene, is a lytic switch gene for viral reactivation from latency,
 inasmuch as it is both essential and sufficient to drive the entire
 viral lytic cycle. Here we show that the Lyta promoter region was
 heavily methylated in latently infected cells. Treatment of primary
 effusion lymphoma-delivered cell lines with tetradecanoylphorbol
 acetate caused demethylation of the Lyta promoter and induced KSHV
 lytic phase in vitro. Methylation cassette assay shows
 demethylation of the Lyta promoter region was essential for the
 expression of Lyta. In vivo, biopsy samples obtained
 from patients with KSHV-related diseases show the most demethylation in
 the Lyta promoter region, whereas samples from a latently infected KSHV
 carrier remained in a methylated status. These results suggest a
 relationship among a demethylation status in the Lyta promoter, the
 reactivation of KSHV, and the development of KSHV-associated diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Clostridium cellulovorans uses not only cellulose
 but also xylan, mannan, pectin, and several other carbon sources for
 its growth and produces an extracellular multienzyme complex called the
 cellulosome, which is involved in plant cell wall degradation. Here we
 report a gene for a cellulosomal subunit, pectate lyase A (PelA), lying
 downstream of the engY gene, which codes for
 cellulosomal enzyme EngY. pelA is composed of an ORF of
 2,742 bp and encodes a protein of 914 aa with a molecular weight of
 94,458. The amino acid sequence derived from pelA
 revealed a multidomain structure, i.e., an N-terminal domain partially
 homologous to the C terminus of PelB of Erwinia
 chrysanthemi belonging to family 1 of pectate lyases, a
 putative cellulose-binding domain, a catalytic domain homologous to
 PelL and PelX of E. chrysanthemi that belongs to family
 4 of pectate lyases, and a duplicated sequence (or dockerin) at the C
 terminus that is highly conserved in enzymatic subunits of the
 C. cellulovorans cellulosome. The recombinant truncated
 enzyme cleaved polygalacturonic acid to digalacturonic acid (G2) and
 trigalacturonic acid (G3) but did not act on G2 and G3. There have been
 no reports available to date on pectate lyase genes from
 Clostridia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ehrlichiae are responsible for important tick-transmitted diseases,
 including anaplasmosis, the most prevalent tick-borne infection of
 livestock worldwide, and the emerging human diseases monocytic and
 granulocytic ehrlichiosis. Antigenic variation of major surface
 proteins is a key feature of these pathogens that allows persistence in
 the mammalian host, a requisite for subsequent tick transmission. In
 Anaplasma marginale pseudogenes for two antigenically
 variable gene families, msp2 and msp3,
 appear in concert. These pseudogenes can be recombined into the
 functional expression site to generate new antigenic variants.
 Coordinated control of the recombination of these genes would allow
 these two gene families to act synergistically to evade the host immune
 response.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The complete genome sequence of Caulobacter
 crescentus was determined to be 4,016,942 base pairs in a
 single circular chromosome encoding 3,767 genes. This organism, which
 grows in a dilute aquatic environment, coordinates the cell division
 cycle and multiple cell differentiation events. With the annotated
 genome sequence, a full description of the genetic network that
 controls bacterial differentiation, cell growth, and cell cycle
 progression is within reach. Two-component signal transduction proteins
 are known to play a significant role in cell cycle progression. Genome
 analysis revealed that the C. crescentus genome encodes
 a significantly higher number of these signaling proteins (105) than
 any bacterial genome sequenced thus far. Another regulatory mechanism
 involved in cell cycle progression is DNA methylation. The occurrence
 of the recognition sequence for an essential DNA methylating enzyme
 that is required for cell cycle regulation is severely limited and
 shows a bias to intergenic regions. The genome contains multiple
 clusters of genes encoding proteins essential for survival in a
 nutrient poor habitat. Included are those involved in chemotaxis, outer
 membrane channel function, degradation of aromatic ring compounds, and
 the breakdown of plant-derived carbon sources, in addition to many
 extracytoplasmic function sigma factors, providing the organism with
 the ability to respond to a wide range of environmental fluctuations.
 C. crescentus is, to our knowledge, the first
 free-living α-class proteobacterium to be sequenced and will serve as
 a foundation for exploring the biology of this group of bacteria, which
 includes the obligate endosymbiont and human pathogen Rickettsia
 prowazekii, the plant pathogen Agrobacterium
 tumefaciens, and the bovine and human pathogen Brucella
 abortus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There is substantial scientific evidence to support the
 notion that bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) has contaminated
 human beings, causing variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (vCJD). This
 disease has raised concerns about the possibility of an iatrogenic
 secondary transmission to humans, because the biological properties of
 the primate-adapted BSE agent are unknown. We show that
 (i) BSE can be transmitted from primate to primate by
 intravenous route in 25 months, and (ii) an iatrogenic
 transmission of vCJD to humans could be readily recognized
 pathologically, whether it occurs by the central or peripheral route.
 Strain typing in mice demonstrates that the BSE agent adapts to
 macaques in the same way as it does to humans and confirms that the BSE
 agent is responsible for vCJD not only in the United Kingdom but also
 in France. The agent responsible for French iatrogenic growth
 hormone-linked CJD taken as a control is very different from vCJD but
 is similar to that found in one case of sporadic CJD and one sheep
 scrapie isolate. These data will be key in identifying the origin of
 human cases of prion disease, including accidental vCJD transmission,
 and could provide bases for vCJD risk assessment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this report we provide evidence that neuronal nicotinic
 acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are present on hippocampal astrocytes
 and their activation produces rapid currents and calcium transients.
 Our data indicate that these responses obtained from astrocytes are
 primarily mediated by an AChR subtype that is functionally blocked by
 α-bungarotoxin (αBgt) and contains the α7 subunit (αBgt-AChRs).
 Furthermore, their action is unusual in that they effectively increase
 intracellular free calcium concentrations by activating calcium-induced
 calcium release from intracellular stores, triggered by influx through
 the receptor channels. These results reveal a mechanism by which
 αBgt-AChRs on astrocytes can efficiently modulate calcium signaling
 in the central nervous system in a manner distinct from that observed
 with these receptors on neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although the presence of an olfactory impairment in Parkinson's
 disease (PD) has been recognized for 25 years, its cause remains
 unclear. Here we suggest a contributing factor to this impairment,
 namely, that PD impairs active sniffing of odorants. We tested 10 men
 and 10 women with clinically typical PD, and 20 age- and gender-matched
 healthy controls, in four olfactory tasks: (i) the
 University of Pennsylvania smell identification test;
 (ii and iii) detection threshold tests
 for the odorants vanillin and propionic acid; and (iv) a
 two-alternative forced-choice detection paradigm during which sniff
 parameters (airflow peak rate, mean rate, volume, and duration) were
 recorded with a pneomatotachograph-coupled spirometer. An additional
 experiment tested the effect of intentionally increasing sniff vigor on
 olfactory performance in 20 additional patients. PD patients were
 significantly impaired in olfactory identification
 (P < 0.0001) and detection (P
 < 0.007). As predicted, PD patients were also significantly impaired
 at sniffing, demonstrating significantly reduced sniff airflow rate
 (P < 0.01) and volume (P <
 0.002). Furthermore, a patient's ability to sniff predicted his or her
 performance on olfactory tasks, i.e., the more poorly patients sniffed,
 the worse their performance on olfaction tests (P
 < 0.009). Finally, increasing sniff vigor improved olfactory
 performance in those patients whose baseline performance had been
 poorest (P < 0.05). These findings implicate a
 sniffing impairment as a component of the olfactory impairment in PD
 and further depict sniffing as an important component of human
 olfaction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In postnatal tissues, angiogenesis occurs in nontumoral conditions
 on appropriate stimuli. In the nervous tissue, hypoxia, neural graft,
 increased neural function, and synaptic activity are associated with
 neoangiogenesis. We have investigated the occurrence of neoangiogenesis
 in the superior cervical ganglia (scg) of newborn rats treated for
 8–21 days with 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA), nerve growth factor (NGF),
 or 6-OHDA + NGF. The two latter treatments induced a significant
 increase in scg size. However, the increase after combined treatment
 far exceeded that of NGF alone. Similarly, histological and
 histochemical analysis revealed neuronal hypertrophy and endothelial
 cell hyperplasia associated with stromal hypertrophy (as described by
 laminin immunostaining) and increased vascular bed (as revealed by
 platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 immunostaining) in
 6-OHDA + NGF-treated pups. NGF, either alone or associated with 6-OHDA,
 also induced a significant up-regulation of NADPH diaphorase, neuronal
 nitric oxide synthase, and vascular endothelial growth factor
 expression in scg neurons. The present investigation suggests that the
 increase of scg size induced by NGF and 6-OHDA + NGF is associated with
 neoangiogenesis, and that the induction of vasoactive and angiogenic
 factors in neurons represents a further and previously undisclosed
 effect of NGF.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Computational maps are of central importance to a neuronal
 representation of the outside world. In a map, neighboring neurons
 respond to similar sensory features. A well studied example is the
 computational map of interaural time differences (ITDs), which is
 essential to sound localization in a variety of species and allows
 resolution of ITDs of the order of 10 μs. Nevertheless, it is unclear
 how such an orderly representation of temporal features arises. We
 address this problem by modeling the ontogenetic development of an ITD
 map in the laminar nucleus of the barn owl. We show how the owl's ITD
 map can emerge from a combined action of homosynaptic spike-based
 Hebbian learning and its propagation along the presynaptic axon. In
 spike-based Hebbian learning, synaptic strengths are modified according
 to the timing of pre- and postsynaptic action potentials. In unspecific
 axonal learning, a synapse's modification gives rise to a factor that
 propagates along the presynaptic axon and affects the properties of
 synapses at neighboring neurons. Our results indicate that both Hebbian
 learning and its presynaptic propagation are necessary for map
 formation in the laminar nucleus, but the latter can be orders of
 magnitude weaker than the former. We argue that the algorithm is
 important for the formation of computational maps, when, in particular,
 time plays a key role.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Low-frequency thalamocortical oscillations that underlie drowsiness
 and slow-wave sleep depend on rhythmic inhibition of relay cells by
 neurons in the reticular nucleus (RTN) under the influence of
 corticothalamic fibers that branch to innervate RTN neurons and relay
 neurons. To generate oscillations, input to RTN predictably should be
 stronger so disynaptic inhibition of relay cells overcomes direct
 corticothalamic excitation. Amplitudes of excitatory postsynaptic
 conductances (EPSCs) evoked in RTN neurons by minimal stimulation of
 corticothalamic fibers were 2.4 times larger than in relay neurons, and
 quantal size of RTN EPSCs was 2.6 times greater. GluR4-receptor
 subunits labeled at corticothalamic synapses on RTN neurons outnumbered
 those on relay cells by 3.7 times, providing a basis for differences in
 synaptic strength.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs) are responsible for the exquisite
 sensitivity, dynamic range, and frequency-resolving capacity of the
 mammalian hearing organ. These unique cells respond to an electrical
 stimulus with a cycle-by-cycle change in cell length that is mediated
 by molecular motors in the cells' basolateral membrane. Recent work
 identified prestin, a protein with similarity to pendrin-related anion
 transporters, as the OHC motor molecule. Here we show that
 heterologously expressed prestin from rat OHCs (rprestin) exhibits
 reciprocal electromechanical properties as known for the OHC motor
 protein. Upon electrical stimulation in the microchamber configuration,
 rprestin generates mechanical force with constant amplitude and phase
 up to a stimulus frequency of at least 20 kHz. Mechanical stimulation
 of rprestin in excised outside-out patches shifts the voltage
 dependence of the nonlinear capacitance characterizing the electrical
 properties of the molecule. The results indicate that rprestin is a
 molecular motor that displays reciprocal electromechanical properties
 over the entire frequency range relevant for mammalian hearing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Galanin is a neuropeptide with multiple inhibitory actions on
 neurotransmission and memory. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), increased
 galanin-containing fibers hyperinnervate cholinergic neurons within the
 basal forebrain in association with a decline in cognition. We
 generated transgenic mice (GAL-tg) that overexpress galanin under the
 control of the dopamine β-hydroxylase promoter to study the
 neurochemical and behavioral sequelae of a mouse model of galanin
 overexpression in AD. Overexpression of galanin was associated with a
 reduction in the number of identifiable neurons producing acetylcholine
 in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band. Behavioral phenotyping
 indicated that GAL-tgs displayed normal general health and sensory and
 motor abilities; however, GAL-tg mice showed selective performance
 deficits on the Morris spatial navigational task and the social
 transmission of food preference olfactory memory test. These results
 suggest that elevated expression of galanin contributes to the
 neurochemical and cognitive impairments characteristic of AD.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gap junctional communication between microglia was
 investigated at rat brain stab wounds and in primary cultures of rat
 and mouse cells. Under resting conditions, rat microglia
 (FITC-isolectin-B4-reactive cells) were sparsely distributed in the
 neocortex, and most (95%) were not immunoreactive for Cx43, a gap
 junction protein subunit. At brain stab wounds, microglia progressively
 accumulated over several days and formed aggregates that frequently
 showed Cx43 immunoreactivity at interfaces between cells. In primary
 culture, microglia showed low levels of Cx43 determined by Western
 blotting, diffuse intracellular Cx43 immunoreactivity, and a low
 incidence of dye coupling. Treatment with the immunostimulant bacterial
 lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or the cytokines interferon-γ (INF-γ) or
 tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) one at a time did not increase the
 incidence of dye coupling. However, microglia treated with INF-γ plus
 LPS showed a dramatic increase in dye coupling that was prevented by
 coapplication of an anti-TNF-α antibody, suggesting the release and
 autocrine action of TNF-α. Treatment with INF-γ plus TNF-α also
 greatly increased the incidence of dye coupling and the Cx43
 levels with translocation of Cx43 to cell–cell contacts. The
 cytokine-induced dye coupling was reversibly inhibited by
 18α-glycyrrhetinic acid, a gap junction blocker. Cultured mouse
 microglia also expressed Cx43 and developed dye coupling upon treatment
 with cytokines, but microglia from homozygous Cx43-deficient mice did
 not develop significant dye coupling after treatment with either
 INF-γ plus LPS or INF-γ plus TNF-α. This report demonstrates that
 microglia can communicate with each other through gap junctions that
 are induced by inflammatory cytokines, a process that may be important
 in the elaboration of the inflammatory response.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Visual habit formation in monkeys, assessed by concurrent visual
 discrimination learning with 24-h intertrial intervals (ITI), was found
 earlier to be impaired by removal of the inferior temporal visual area
 (TE) but not by removal of either the medial temporal lobe or inferior
 prefrontal convexity, two of TE's major projection targets. To assess
 the role in this form of learning of another pair of structures to
 which TE projects, namely the rostral portion of the tail of the
 caudate nucleus and the overlying ventrocaudal putamen, we injected a
 neurotoxin into this neostriatal region of several monkeys and tested
 them on the 24-h ITI task as well as on a test of visual recognition
 memory. Compared with unoperated monkeys, the experimental animals were
 unaffected on the recognition test but showed an impairment on the 24-h
 ITI task that was highly correlated with the extent of their
 neostriatal damage. The findings suggest that TE and its projection
 areas in the ventrocaudal neostriatum form part of a circuit that
 selectively mediates visual habit formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The objective of this study was to elucidate the mechanisms
 by which nitric oxide (NO) inhibits rat aortic smooth muscle cell
 (RASMC) proliferation. Two products of the arginine-NO pathway
 interfere with cell growth by distinct mechanisms.
 NG-hydroxyarginine and NO appear to interfere with cell
 proliferation by inhibiting arginase and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC),
 respectively.
 S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine,
 (Z)-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-aminoethyl)-amino]-diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate,
 and a nitroaspirin derivative (NCX 4016), each of which is a NO donor
 agent, inhibited RASMC growth at concentrations of 1–3 μM by
 cGMP-independent mechanisms. The cytostatic action of the NO donor
 agents as well as α-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a known ODC
 inhibitor, was prevented by addition of putrescine but not ornithine.
 These observations suggested that NO, like DFMO, may directly inhibit
 ODC. Experiments with purified, recombinant mammalian ODC revealed that
 NO inhibits ODC possibly by S-nitrosylation of the active site cysteine
 in ODC. DFMO, as well as the NO donor agents, interfered with cellular
 polyamine (putrescine, spermidine, spermine) production. Conversely,
 increasing the expression and catalytic activity of arginase I in RASMC
 either by transfection of cells with the arginase I gene or by
 induction of arginase I mRNA with IL-4 resulted in increased urea and
 polyamine production as well as cell proliferation. Finally, coculture
 of rat aortic endothelial cells, which had been pretreated with
 lipopolysaccharide plus a cytokine mixture to induce NO synthase and
 promote NO production, caused NO-dependent inhibition of target RASMC
 proliferation. This study confirms the inhibitory role of the
 arginine-NO pathway in vascular smooth muscle proliferation and
 indicates that one mechanism of action of NO is cGMP-independent and
 attributed to its capacity to inhibit ODC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Traditional mechanisms thought to underlie opioid tolerance
 include receptor phosphorylation/down-regulation, G-protein
 uncoupling, and adenylyl cyclase superactivation. A parallel line of
 investigation also indicates that opioid tolerance development results
 from a switch from predominantly opioid receptor Giα
 inhibitory to Gβγ stimulatory signaling. As
 described previously, this results, in part, from the increased
 relative abundance of Gβγ-stimulated
 adenylyl cyclase isoforms as well as from a profound increase in their
 phosphorylation [Chakrabarti, S., Rivera, M., Yan, S.-Z., Tang, W.-J.
 & Gintzler, A. R. (1998) Mol. Pharmacol. 54,
 655–662; Chakrabarti, S., Wang, L., Tang, W.-J. & Gintzler, A. R.
 (1998) Mol. Pharmacol. 54, 949–953]. The present study
 demonstrates that chronic morphine administration results in the
 concomitant phosphorylation of three key signaling proteins, G protein
 receptor kinase (GRK) 2/3, β-arrestin, and Gβ, in the
 guinea pig longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus tissue. Augmented
 phosphorylation of all three proteins is evident in immunoprecipitate
 obtained by using either anti-GRK2/3 or Gβ antibodies,
 but the phosphorylation increment is greater in immunoprecipitate
 obtained with Gβ antibodies. Analyses of
 coimmunoprecipitated proteins indicate that phosphorylation of
 GRK2/3, β-arrestin, and Gβ has varying consequences
 on their ability to associate. As a result, increased availability of
 and signaling via Gβγ could occur without
 compromising the membrane content (and presumably activity) of
 GRK2/3. Induction of the concomitant phosphorylation of multiple
 proteins in a multimolecular complex with attendant modulation of their
 association represents a novel mechanism for increasing
 Gβγ signaling and opioid tolerance
 formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Central core disease (CCD) is a human congenital myopathy
 characterized by fetal hypotonia and proximal muscle weakness that is
 linked to mutations in the gene encoding the type-1 ryanodine receptor
 (RyR1). CCD is thought to arise from Ca2+-induced damage
 stemming from mutant RyR1 proteins forming “leaky” sarcoplasmic
 reticulum (SR) Ca2+ release channels. A novel mutation in
 the C-terminal region of RyR1 (I4898T) accounts for an unusually severe
 and highly penetrant form of CCD in humans [Lynch, P. J., Tong,
 J., Lehane, M., Mallet, A., Giblin, L., Heffron, J. J., Vaughan,
 P., Zafra, G., MacLennan, D. H. & McCarthy, T. V. (1999)
 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96, 4164–4169]. We
 expressed in skeletal myotubes derived from RyR1-knockout (dyspedic)
 mice the analogous mutation engineered into a rabbit RyR1 cDNA
 (I4897T). Here we show that homozygous expression of I4897T in dyspedic
 myotubes results in a complete uncoupling of sarcolemmal excitation
 from voltage-gated SR Ca2+ release without significantly
 altering resting cytosolic Ca2+ levels, SR Ca2+
 content, or RyR1-mediated enhancement of dihydropyridine receptor
 (DHPR) channel activity. Coexpression of both I4897T and wild-type RyR1
 resulted in a 60% reduction in voltage-gated SR Ca2+
 release, again without altering resting cytosolic Ca2+
 levels, SR Ca2+ content, or DHPR channel activity. These
 findings indicate that muscle weakness suffered by individuals
 possessing the I4898T mutation involves a functional uncoupling of
 sarcolemmal excitation from SR Ca2+ release, rather than
 the expression of overactive or leaky SR Ca2+ release
 channels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pendrin is an anion transporter encoded by the
 PDS/Pds gene. In humans, mutations in
 PDS cause the genetic disorder Pendred syndrome, which
 is associated with deafness and goiter. Previous studies have shown
 that this gene has a relatively restricted pattern of expression, with
 PDS/Pds mRNA detected only in the
 thyroid, inner ear, and kidney. The present study examined the
 distribution and function of pendrin in the mammalian kidney.
 Immunolocalization studies were performed using anti-pendrin polyclonal
 and monoclonal antibodies. Labeling was detected on the apical surface
 of a subpopulation of cells within the cortical collecting ducts (CCDs)
 that also express the H+-ATPase but not aquaporin-2,
 indicating that pendrin is present in intercalated cells of the CCD.
 Furthermore, pendrin was detected exclusively within the subpopulation
 of intercalated cells that express the H+-ATPase but not
 the anion exchanger 1 (AE1) and that are thought to mediate bicarbonate
 secretion. The same distribution of pendrin was observed in mouse, rat,
 and human kidney. However, pendrin was not detected in kidneys from a
 Pds-knockout mouse. Perfused CCD tubules isolated from
 alkali-loaded wild-type mice secreted bicarbonate, whereas tubules from
 alkali-loaded Pds-knockout mice failed to secrete
 bicarbonate. Together, these studies indicate that pendrin is an apical
 anion transporter in intercalated cells of CCDs and has an essential
 role in renal bicarbonate secretion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interactions of sulfhydryl reagents with introduced cysteines in
 the pore-forming (Kir6.2) subunits of the KATP channel were
 examined. 2-Aminoethyl methanethiosulfonate (MTSEA+) failed
 to modify Cd2+-insensitive control-Kir6.2 channels, but
 rapidly and irreversibly modified Kir6.2[L164C] (L164C) channels.
 Although a single Cd2+ ion is coordinated by L164C, four
 MTSEA+ “hits” can occur, each sequentially reducing
 the single-channel current. A dimeric fusion of control-Kir6.2 and
 L164C subunits generates Cd2+-insensitive channels,
 confirming that at least three cysteines are required for coordination,
 but MTSEA+ modification of the dimer occurs in two hits.
 L164C channels were not modified by bromotrimethyl ammoniumbimane
 (qBBr+), even though qBBr+ caused
 voltage-dependent block (as opposed to modification) that was
 comparable to that of MTSEA+ or 3-(triethylammonium)propyl
 methanethiosulfonate (MTSPTrEA+), implying that
 qBBr+ can also enter the inner cavity but does not modify
 L164C residues. The Kir channel pore structure was modeled by homology
 with the KcsA crystal structure. A stable conformation optimally places
 the four L164C side chains for coordination of a single
 Cd2+ ion. Modification of these cysteines by up to four
 MTSEA+ (or three MTSPTrEA+, or two
 qBBr+) does not require widening of the cavity to
 accommodate the derivatives within it. However, like the KcsA crystal
 structure, the energy-minimized model shows a narrowing at the inner
 entrance, and in the Kir6.2 model this narrowing excludes all ions. To
 allow entry of ions as large as MTSPTrEA+ or
 qBBr+, the entrance must widen to >8 Å, but this widening
 is readily accomplished by minimal M2 helix motion and side-chain
 rearrangement.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Leptin deficiency results in a complex obesity phenotype comprising
 both hyperphagia and lowered metabolism. The hyperphagia results, at
 least in part, from the absence of induction by leptin of melanocyte
 stimulating hormone (MSH) secretion in the hypothalamus; the MSH
 normally then binds to melanocortin-4 receptor expressing neurons and
 inhibits food intake. The basis for the reduced metabolic rate has been
 unknown. Here we show that leptin administered to leptin-deficient
 (ob/ob) mice results in a large increase in peripheral
 MSH levels; further, peripheral administration of an MSH analogue
 results in a reversal of their abnormally low metabolic rate, in an
 acceleration of weight loss during a fast, in partial restoration of
 thermoregulation in a cold challenge, and in inducing serum free fatty
 acid levels. These results support an important peripheral role for MSH
 in the integration of metabolism with appetite in response to perceived
 fat stores indicated by leptin levels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The conversion of light to chemical energy by the process of
 photosynthesis is localized to the thylakoid membrane network in plant
 chloroplasts. Although several pathways have been described that target
 proteins into and across the thylakoids, little is known about the
 origin of this membrane system or how the lipid backbone of the
 thylakoids is transported and fused with the target membrane. Thylakoid
 biogenesis and maintenance seem to involve the flow of membrane
 elements via vesicular transport. Here we show by mutational analysis
 that deletion of a single gene called VIPP1
 (vesicle-inducing protein in plastids 1) is deleterious to thylakoid
 membrane formation. Although VIPP1 is a hydrophilic protein it is found
 in both the inner envelope and the thylakoid membranes. In
 VIPP1 deletion mutants vesicle formation is abolished.
 We propose that VIPP1 is essential for the maintenance
 of thylakoids by a transport pathway not previously recognized.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plant chloroplasts originated from an endosymbiotic event by which
 an ancestor of contemporary cyanobacteria was engulfed by an early
 eukaryotic cell and then transformed into an organelle. Oxygenic
 photosynthesis is the specific feature of cyanobacteria and
 chloroplasts, and the photosynthetic machinery resides in an internal
 membrane system, the thylakoids. The origin and genesis of thylakoid
 membranes, which are essential for oxygenic photosynthesis, are still
 an enigma. Vipp1 (vesicle-inducing protein in plastids 1) is a protein
 located in both the inner envelope and the thylakoids of Pisum
 sativum and Arabidopsis thaliana. In
 Arabidopsis disruption of the VIPP1 gene
 severely affects the plant's ability to form properly structured
 thylakoids and as a consequence to carry out photosynthesis. In
 contrast, Vipp1 in Synechocystis appears to be located
 exclusively in the plasma membrane. Yet, as in higher plants,
 disruption of the VIPP1 gene locus leads to the complete
 loss of thylakoid formation. So far VIPP1 genes are
 found only in organisms carrying out oxygenic photosynthesis. They
 share sequence homology with a subunit encoded by the bacterial phage
 shock operon (PspA) but differ from PspA by a C-terminal extension of
 about 30 amino acids. In two cyanobacteria,
 Synechocystis and Anabaena, both a
 VIPP1 and a pspA gene are present, and
 phylogenetic analysis indicates that VIPP1 originated
 from a gene duplication of the latter and thereafter acquired its new
 function. It also appears that the C-terminal extension that
 discriminates VIPP1 proteins from PspA is important for its function in
 thylakoid formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mitochondrial and chloroplast ATP synthases are key enzymes in
 plant metabolism, providing cells with ATP, the universal energy
 currency. ATP synthases use a transmembrane electrochemical proton
 gradient to drive synthesis of ATP. The enzyme complexes function as
 miniature rotary engines, ensuring energy coupling with very high
 efficiency. Although our understanding of the structure and functioning
 of the synthase has made enormous progress in recent years, our
 understanding of regulatory mechanisms is still rather preliminary.
 Here we report a role for 14-3-3 proteins in the regulation of ATP
 synthases. These 14-3-3 proteins are highly conserved
 phosphoserine/phosphothreonine-binding proteins that regulate a wide
 range of enzymes in plants, animals, and yeast. Recently, the presence
 of 14-3-3 proteins in chloroplasts was illustrated, and we show here
 that plant mitochondria harbor 14-3-3s within the inner
 mitochondrial-membrane compartment. There, the 14-3-3 proteins were
 found to be associated with the ATP synthases, in a
 phosphorylation-dependent manner, through direct interaction with the
 F1 β-subunit. The activity of the ATP synthases in both
 organelles is drastically reduced by recombinant 14-3-3. The rapid
 reduction in chloroplast ATPase activity during dark adaptation was
 prevented by a phosphopeptide containing the 14-3-3 interaction motif,
 demonstrating a role for endogenous 14-3-3 in the
 down-regulation of the CFoF1 activity. We
 conclude that regulation of the ATP synthases by 14-3-3 represents a
 mechanism for plant adaptation to environmental changes such as
 light/dark transitions, anoxia in roots, and fluctuations in nutrient
 supply.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most higher plants develop severe toxicity symptoms when grown on
 ammonium (NH) as the sole nitrogen source. Recently,
 NH toxicity has been implicated as a cause of forest
 decline and even species extinction. Although mechanisms underlying
 NH toxicity have been extensively sought, the primary
 events conferring it at the cellular level are not understood. Using a
 high-precision positron tracing technique, we here present a
 cell-physiological characterization of NH acquisition
 in two major cereals, barley (Hordeum vulgare), known to
 be susceptible to toxicity, and rice (Oryza sativa),
 known for its exceptional tolerance to even high levels of
 NH. We show that, at high external
 NH concentration
 ([NH]o), barley root cells experience a
 breakdown in the regulation of NH influx, leading to
 the accumulation of excessive amounts of NH in the
 cytosol. Measurements of NH efflux, combined with a
 thermodynamic analysis of the transmembrane electrochemical potential
 for NH, reveal that, at elevated
 [NH]o, barley cells engage a
 high-capacity NH-efflux system that supports outward
 NH fluxes against a sizable gradient. Ammonium efflux
 is shown to constitute as much as 80% of primary influx, resulting in
 a never-before-documented futile cycling of nitrogen across the plasma
 membrane of root cells. This futile cycling carries a high energetic
 cost (we record a 40% increase in root respiration) that is
 independent of N metabolism and is accompanied by a decline in growth.
 In rice, by contrast, a cellular defense strategy has evolved that is
 characterized by an energetically neutral, near-Nernstian,
 equilibration of NH at high
 [NH]o. Thus our study has characterized
 the primary events in NH nutrition at the cellular
 level that may constitute the fundamental cause of NH
 toxicity in plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) is among those brain regions having
 the highest baseline metabolic activity at rest and one that exhibits
 decreases from this baseline across a wide variety of goal-directed
 behaviors in functional imaging studies. This high metabolic rate and
 this behavior suggest the existence of an organized mode of default
 brain function, elements of which may be either attenuated or enhanced.
 Extant data suggest that these MPFC regions may contribute to the
 neural instantiation of aspects of the multifaceted “self.” We
 explore this important concept by targeting and manipulating elements
 of MPFC default state activity. In this functional magnetic resonance
 imaging (fMRI) study, subjects made two judgments, one
 self-referential, the other not, in response to affectively normed
 pictures: pleasant vs. unpleasant (an internally cued condition, ICC)
 and indoors vs. outdoors (an externally cued condition, ECC). The ICC
 was preferentially associated with activity increases along the dorsal
 MPFC. These increases were accompanied by decreases in both active task
 conditions in ventral MPFC. These results support the view that dorsal
 and ventral MPFC are differentially influenced by
 attentiondemanding tasks and explicitly self-referential tasks.
 The presence of self-referential mental activity appears
 to be associated with increases from the baseline in dorsal MPFC.
 Reductions in ventral MPFC occurred consistent with the fact that
 attention-demanding tasks attenuate emotional processing. We posit that
 both self-referential mental activity and emotional processing
 represent elements of the default state as represented by activity in
 MPFC. We suggest that a useful way to explore the neurobiology of the
 self is to explore the nature of default state activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Visual classification is the way we relate to different images in
 our environment as if they were the same, while relating differently to
 other collections of stimuli (e.g., human vs. animal faces). It is
 still not clear, however, how the brain forms such classes, especially
 when introduced with new or changing environments. To isolate a
 perception-based mechanism underlying class representation, we studied
 unsupervised classification of an incoming stream of simple images.
 Classification patterns were clearly affected by stimulus frequency
 distribution, although subjects were unaware of this distribution.
 There was a common bias to locate class centers near the most frequent
 stimuli and their boundaries near the least frequent stimuli. Responses
 were also faster for more frequent stimuli. Using a minimal,
 biologically based neural-network model, we demonstrate that a simple,
 self-organizing representation mechanism based on overlapping tuning
 curves and slow Hebbian learning suffices to ensure classification.
 Combined behavioral and theoretical results predict large tuning
 overlap, implicating posterior infero-temporal cortex as a possible
 site of classification.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We characterize a class of spatio-temporal illusions with two
 complementary properties. Firstly, if a vernier stimulus is flashed for
 a short time on a monitor and is followed immediately by a grating, the
 latter can express features of the vernier, such as its offset, its
 orientation, or its motion (feature inheritance). Yet the vernier
 stimulus itself remains perceptually invisible. Secondly, the vernier
 can be rendered visible by presenting gratings with a larger number of
 elements (shine-through). Under these conditions, subjects perceive two
 independent “objects” each carrying their own features.
 Transition between these two domains can be effected by subtle changes
 in the spatio-temporal layout of the grating. This should allow
 psychophysicists and electrophysiologists to investigate feature
 binding in a precise and quantitative manner.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Spectral changes in the photocycle of the photoactive yellow
 protein (PYP) are investigated by using ab initio
 multiconfigurational second-order perturbation theory at the available
 structures experimentally determined. Using the dark ground-state
 crystal structure [Genick, U. K., Soltis, S. M., Kuhn, P.,
 Canestrelli, I. L. & Getzoff, E. D. (1998) Nature
 (London) 392, 206–209], the ππ* transition to
 the lowest excited state is related to the typical blue-light
 absorption observed at 446 nm. The different nature of the second
 excited state (nπ*) is consistent with the alternative
 route detected at 395-nm excitation. The results suggest the
 low-temperature photoproduct PYPHL as the most plausible
 candidate for the assignment of the cryogenically trapped early
 intermediate (Genick et al.). We cannot establish,
 however, a successful correspondence between the theoretical spectrum
 for the nanosecond time-resolved x-ray structure [Perman, B.,
 Šrajer, V., Ren, Z., Teng, T., Pradervand, C., et
 al. (1998) Science 279, 1946–1950] and any of
 the spectroscopic photoproducts known up to date. It is fully confirmed
 that the colorless light-activated intermediate recorded by millisecond
 time-resolved crystallography [Genick, U. K., Borgstahl, G.
 E. O., Ng, K., Ren, Z., Pradervand, C., et al.
 (1997) Science 275, 1471–1475] is protonated, nicely
 matching the spectroscopic features of the photoproduct
 PYPM. The overall contribution demonstrates that a combined
 analysis of high-level theoretical results and experimental data can be
 of great value to perform assignments of detected intermediates in a
 photocycle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Paleontological data for the diversity of marine animals and
 land plants are shown to correlate significantly with a concurrent
 measure of stable carbon isotope fractionation for approximately the
 last 400 million years. The correlations can be deduced from the
 assumption that increasing plant diversity led to increasing chemical
 weathering of rocks and therefore an increasing flux of carbon from the
 atmosphere to rocks, and nutrients from the continents to the oceans.
 The CO2 concentration dependence of photosynthetic carbon
 isotope fractionation then indicates that the diversification of land
 plants led to decreasing CO2 levels, while the
 diversification of marine animals derived from increasing nutrient
 availability. Under the explicit assumption that global biodiversity
 grows with global biomass, the conservation of carbon shows that the
 long-term fluctuations of CO2 levels were dominated by
 complementary changes in the biological and fluid reservoirs of carbon,
 while the much larger geological reservoir remained relatively constant
 in size. As a consequence, the paleontological record of biodiversity
 provides an indirect estimate of the fluctuations of ancient
 CO2 levels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We give conditions that rule out formation of sharp fronts for
 certain two-dimensional incompressible flows. We show that a necessary
 condition of having a sharp front is that the flow has to have
 uncontrolled velocity growth. In the case of the quasi-geostrophic
 equation and two-dimensional Euler equation, we obtain estimates on the
 formation of semi-uniform fronts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We outline here a proof that a certain rational function
 Cn(q, t), which has
 come to be known as the “q,
 t-Catalan,” is in fact a polynomial with
 positive integer coefficients. This has been an open problem since
 1994. Because Cn(q, t)
 evaluates to the Catalan number at t =
 q = 1, it has also been an open problem to find a pair
 of statistics a, b on the collection
 𝒟n of Dyck paths Π of length 2n
 yielding Cn(q, t)
 = ∑π
ta(Π)qb(Π). Our
 proof is based on a recursion for
 Cn(q, t) suggested by
 a pair of statistics recently proposed by J. Haglund. One of the
 byproducts of our results is a proof of the validity of Haglund's
 conjecture.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The influence of temporal association on the representation and
 recognition of objects was investigated. Observers were shown sequences
 of novel faces in which the identity of the face changed as the head
 rotated. As a result, observers showed a tendency to treat the views as
 if they were of the same person. Additional experiments revealed that
 this was only true if the training sequences depicted head rotations
 rather than jumbled views; in other words, the sequence had to be
 spatially as well as temporally smooth. Results suggest that we are
 continuously associating views of objects to support later recognition,
 and that we do so not only on the basis of the physical similarity, but
 also the correlated appearance in time of the objects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tranformed-rule up and down psychophysical methods have gained
 great popularity, mainly because they combine criterion-free responses
 with an adaptive procedure allowing rapid determination of an average
 stimulus threshold at various criterion levels of correct responses.
 The statistical theory underlying the methods now in routine use is
 based on sets of consecutive responses with assumed constant
 probabilities of occurrence. The response rules requiring consecutive
 responses prevent the possibility of using the most desirable response
 criterion, that of 75% correct responses. The earliest
 transformed-rule up and down method, whose rules included
 nonconsecutive responses, did not contain this limitation but failed to
 become generally accepted, lacking a published theoretical foundation.
 Such a foundation is provided in this article and is validated
 empirically with the help of experiments on human subjects and a
 computer simulation. In addition to allowing the criterion of 75%
 correct responses, the method is more efficient than the methods
 excluding nonconsecutive responses in their rules.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA was extracted from three fecal samples, more than 2,000 years
 old, from Hinds Cave, Texas. Amplification of human mtDNA sequences
 showed their affiliation with contemporary Native Americans, while
 sequences from pronghorn antelope, bighorn sheep, and cottontail rabbit
 allowed these animals to be identified as part of the diet of these
 individuals. Furthermore, amplification of chloroplast DNA sequences
 identified eight different plants as dietary elements. These archaic
 humans consumed 2–4 different animal species and 4–8 different plant
 species during a short time period. The success rate for retrieval of
 DNA from paleofeces is in strong contrast to that from skeletal remains
 where the success rate is generally low. Thus, human paleofecal remains
 represent a source of ancient DNA that significantly complements and
 may in some cases be superior to that from skeletal tissue.
DOC DONE!Abstract
While the interactions of cells with polymeric substrata are widely
 studied, the influence of cell–cell cohesivity on tissue spreading has
 not been rigorously investigated. Here we demonstrate that the rate of
 tissue spreading over a two-dimensional substratum reflects a
 competition or “tug-of-war” between cell–cell and
 cell–substratum adhesions. We have generated both a “library” of
 structurally related copolymeric substrata varying in their adhesivity
 to cells and a library of genetically engineered cell populations
 varying only in cohesivity. Cell–substratum adhesivity was varied
 through the poly(ethylene glycol) content of a series of copolymeric
 substrata, whereas cell–cell cohesivity was varied through the
 expression of the homophilic cohesion molecules N- and R-cadherin by
 otherwise noncohesive L929 cells. In the key experiment, multicellular
 aggregates containing about 600 cells were allowed to spread onto
 copolymeric surfaces. We compared the spreading behavior of aggregates
 having different levels of cell–cell cohesivity on a series of
 copolymeric substrata having different levels of cell–substratum
 adhesivity. In these experiments, cell–cell cohesivity was measured by
 tissue surface tensiometry, and cell–substratum adhesivity was
 assessed by a distractive method. Tissue spreading was assayed by
 confocal microscopy as the rate of cell emigration from similar-sized,
 fluorescence-labeled, multicellular aggregates deposited on each of the
 substrata. We demonstrate that either decreasing substratum adhesivity
 or increasing cell–cell cohesivity dramatically slowed the spreading
 rate of cell aggregates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intracellular protein degradation, which must be tightly controlled
 to protect normal proteins, is carried out by ATP-dependent proteases.
 These multicomponent enzymes have chaperone-like ATPases that
 recognize and unfold protein substrates and deliver them to the
 proteinase components for digestion. In ClpAP, hexameric rings of the
 ClpA ATPase stack axially on either face of the ClpP proteinase, which
 consists of two apposed heptameric rings. We have used cryoelectron
 microscopy to characterize interactions of ClpAP with the model
 substrate, bacteriophage P1 protein, RepA. In complexes stabilized by
 ATPγS, which bind but do not process substrate, RepA dimers are seen
 at near-axial sites on the distal surface of ClpA. On ATP addition,
 RepA is translocated through ≈150 Å into the digestion chamber
 inside ClpP. Little change is observed in ClpAP, implying that
 translocation proceeds without major reorganization of the ClpA
 hexamer. When translocation is observed in complexes containing a ClpP
 mutant whose digestion chamber is already occupied by unprocessed
 propeptides, a small increase in density is observed within ClpP, and
 RepA-associated density is also seen at other axial sites. These sites
 appear to represent intermediate points on the translocation pathway,
 at which segments of unfolded RepA subunits transiently accumulate en
 route to the digestion chamber.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The key event in prion diseases seems to be the conversion of the
 prion protein PrP from its normal cellular isoform (PrPC)
 to an aberrant “scrapie” isoform (PrPSc). Earlier
 studies have detected no covalent modification in the scrapie isoform
 and have concluded that the PrPC → PrPSc
 conversion is a purely conformational transition involving no chemical
 reactions. However, a reexamination of the available biochemical data
 suggests that the PrPC → PrPSc conversion
 also involves a covalent reaction of the (sole) intramolecular
 disulfide bond of PrPC. Specifically, the data are
 consistent with the hypothesis that infectious prions are composed of
 PrPSc polymers linked by intermolecular disulfide bonds.
 Thus, the PrPC → PrPSc conversion may
 involve not only a conformational transition but also a
 thiol/disulfide exchange reaction between the terminal thiolate of
 such a PrPSc polymer and the disulfide bond of a
 PrPC monomer. This hypothesis seems to account for several
 unusual features of prion diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Undecaprenyl diphosphate synthase (UPS) catalyzes the
 cis-prenyl chain elongation onto trans,
 trans-farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) to produce undecaprenyl
 diphosphate (UPP), which is indispensable for the biosynthesis of
 bacterial cell walls. We report here the crystal structure of UPS as
 the only three-dimensional structure among cis-prenyl
 chain elongating enzymes. The structure is classified into a protein
 fold family and is completely different from the so-called
 “isoprenoid synthase fold” that is believed to be a common
 structure for the enzymes relating to isoprenoid biosynthesis.
 Conserved amino acid residues among cis-prenyl chain
 elongating enzymes are located around a large hydrophobic cleft in the
 UPS structure. A structural P-loop motif, which frequently appears in
 the various kinds of phosphate binding site, is found at the entrance
 of this cleft. The catalytic site is determined on the basis of these
 structural features, from which a possible reaction mechanism is
 proposed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Polyamides composed of four amino acids, imidazole (Im), pyrrole
 (Py), hydroxypyrrole (Hp), and β-alanine (β), are synthetic ligands
 that form highly stable complexes in the minor groove of DNA. Although
 specific pairing rules within the 2:1 motif can be used to distinguish
 the four Watson⋅Crick base pairs, a comparable recognition code
 for 1:1 polyamide:DNA complexes had not been described. To set a
 quantitative baseline for the field, the sequence specificities of Im,
 Py, Hp, and β for the four Watson⋅Crick base pairs were
 determined for two polyamides, Im-β-ImPy-β-Im-β-ImPy-β-Dp (1,
 for Im, Py, and β) and Im-β-ImHp-β-Im-β-ImPy-β-Dp (2, for
 Hp), in a 1:1 complex within the DNA sequence context
 5′-AAAGAGAAGAG-3′. Im residues do not distinguish G,C from A,T but bind
 all four base pairs with high affinity. Py and β residues exhibit
 ≥10-fold preference for A,T over G,C base pairs. The Hp residue
 displays a unique preference for a single A⋅T base pair with an
 energetic penalty.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous experimental and theoretical studies have produced
 high-resolution descriptions of the native and folding transition
 states of chymotrypsin inhibitor 2 (CI2). In similar fashion,
 here we use a combination of NMR experiments and molecular dynamics
 simulations to examine the conformations populated by CI2 in the
 denatured state. The denatured state is highly unfolded, but there is
 some residual native helical structure along with hydrophobic
 clustering in the center of the chain. The lack of persistent nonnative
 structure in the denatured state reduces barriers that must be
 overcome, leading to fast folding through a nucleation–condensation
 mechanism. With the characterization of the denatured state, we have
 now completed our description of the folding/unfolding pathway of CI2
 at atomic resolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding the mechanism of thermodynamic stability of an RNA
 structure has significant implications for the function and design of
 RNA. We investigated the equilibrium folding of a thermophilic ribozyme
 and its mesophilic homologue by using hydroxyl radical protection,
 small-angle x-ray scattering, and circular dichroism. Both RNAs require
 Mg2+ to fold to their native structures that are very
 similar. The stability is measured as a function of Mg2+
 and urea concentrations at different temperatures. The enhanced
 stability of the thermophilic ribozyme primarily is derived from a
 tremendous increase in the amount of structure formed in the ultimate
 folding transition. This increase in structure formation and
 cooperativity arises because the penultimate and the ultimate folding
 transitions in the mesophilic ribozyme become linked into a single
 transition in the folding of the thermophilic ribozyme. Therefore, the
 starting point, or reference state, for the transition to the native,
 functional thermophilic ribozyme is significantly less structured. The
 shift in the reference state, and the resulting increase in folding
 cooperativity, is likely due to the stabilization of selected native
 interactions that only form in the ultimate transition. This mechanism
 of using a less structured intermediate and increased cooperativity to
 achieve higher functional stability for tertiary RNAs is fundamentally
 different from that commonly proposed to explain the increased
 stability of thermophilic proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Regulation of the actin-activated ATPase of smooth muscle myosin II
 is known to involve an interaction between the two heads that is
 controlled by phosphorylation of the regulatory light chain. However,
 the three-dimensional structure of this inactivated form has been
 unknown. We have used a lipid monolayer to obtain two-dimensional
 crystalline arrays of the unphosphorylated inactive form of smooth
 muscle heavy meromyosin suitable for structural studies by electron
 cryomicroscopy of unstained, frozen-hydrated specimens. The
 three-dimensional structure reveals an asymmetric interaction
 between the two myosin heads. The ATPase activity of one head
 is sterically “blocked” because part of its actin-binding
 interface is positioned onto the converter domain of the second head.
 ATPase activity of the second head, which can bind actin, appears to be
 inhibited through stabilization of converter domain movements needed to
 release phosphate and achieve strong actin binding. When the
 subfragment 2 domain of heavy meromyosin is oriented as it would be in
 an actomyosin filament lattice, the position of the heads is very
 different from that needed to bind actin, suggesting an additional
 contribution to ATPase inhibition in situ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A method for the quantitative estimation of instability with
 respect to deamidation of the asparaginyl (Asn) residues in proteins is
 described. The procedure involves the observation of several simple
 aspects of the three-dimensional environment of each Asn residue in the
 protein and a calculation that includes these observations, the primary
 amino acid residue sequence, and the previously reported complete set
 of sequence-dependent rates of deamidation for Asn pentapeptides. This
 method is demonstrated and evaluated for 23 proteins in which 31
 unstable and 167 stable Asn residues have been reported and for 7
 unstable and 63 stable Asn residues that have been reported in 61 human
 hemoglobin variants. The relative importance of primary structure and
 three-dimensional structure in Asn deamidation is estimated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chrysanthemyl diphosphate synthase (CPPase) catalyzes the
 condensation of two molecules of dimethylallyl diphosphate to produce
 chrysanthemyl diphosphate (CPP), a monoterpene with a non-head-to-tail
 or irregular c1′-2-3 linkage between isoprenoid units. Irregular
 monoterpenes are common in Chrysanthemum
 cinerariaefolium and related members of the Asteraceae family.
 In C. cinerariaefolium, CPP is an intermediate in the
 biosynthesis of the pyrethrin ester insecticides. CPPase was purified
 from immature chrysanthemum flowers, and the N terminus of the protein
 was sequenced. A C. cinerariaefolium λ cDNA library
 was screened by using degenerate oligonucleotide probes based on the
 amino acid sequence to identify a CPPase clone that encoded a 45-kDa
 preprotein. The first 50 aa of the ORF constitute a putative plastidial
 targeting sequence. Recombinant CPPase bearing an N-terminal
 polyhistidine affinity tag in place of the targeting sequence was
 purified to homogeneity from an overproducing Escherichia
 coli strain by Ni2+ chromatography. Incubation of
 recombinant CPPase with dimethylallyl diphosphate produced CPP. The
 diphosphate ester was hydrolyzed by alkaline phosphatase, and the
 resulting monoterpene alcohol was analyzed by GC/MS to confirm
 its structure. The amino acid sequence of CPPase aligns closely with
 that of the chain elongation prenyltransferase farnesyl diphosphate
 synthase rather than squalene synthase or phytoene synthase, which
 catalyze c1′-2-3 cyclopropanation reactions similar to the CPPase
 reaction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Binding of erythropoietin (Epo) to the Epo receptor (EpoR) is
 crucial for production of mature red cells. Although it is well
 established that the Epo-bound EpoR is a dimer, it is not clear
 whether, in the absence of ligand, the intact EpoR is a monomer or
 oligomer. Using antibody-mediated immunofluorescence copatching
 (oligomerizing) of epitope-tagged receptors at the surface of live
 cells, we show herein that a major fraction of the full-length murine
 EpoR exists as preformed dimers/oligomers in BOSC cells, which
 are human embryo kidney 293T-derived cells. This observed
 oligomerization is specific because, under the same conditions,
 epitope-tagged EpoR did not oligomerize with several other tagged
 receptors (thrombopoietin receptor, transforming growth factor β
 receptor type II, or prolactin receptor). Strikingly, the EpoR
 transmembrane (TM) domain but not the extracellular or intracellular
 domains enabled the prolactin receptor to copatch with EpoR. Preformed
 EpoR oligomers are not constitutively active and Epo binding was
 required to induce signaling. In contrast to tyrosine kinase receptors
 (e.g., insulin receptor), which cannot signal when their TM domain is
 replaced by the strongly dimerizing TM domain of glycophorin A, the
 EpoR could tolerate the replacement of its TM domain with that of
 glycophorin A and retained signaling. We propose a model in which TM
 domain-induced dimerization maintains unliganded EpoR in an inactive
 state that can readily be switched to an active state by physiologic
 levels of Epo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The putative tumor metastasis suppressor nm23H1 was originally
 identified in murine melanomas by subtraction cloning. It displays
 nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity and regulates cellular events,
 including growth and development. Recently nm23H1 has been reported to
 also act as a GTPase-activating protein of the Ras-related GTPase Rad.
 We attempted to determine whether nm23H1 also regulates Rho-family
 GTPases. Although we were unable to detect a direct association between
 nm23H1 and Rho-family GTPases, nm23H1 was shown to be associated with a
 Rac1-specific nucleotide exchange factor, Tiam1, by interaction with
 its amino-terminal region in extracts from the cells expressing
 exogenous Tiam1 and from native tissue. Overexpression of nm23H1
 inhibited the Tiam1-induced production of GTP-bound Rac1 and activation
 of c-Jun kinase. On the other hand, forced overexpression of the wild
 type, but not the kinase-inactivated mutant of nm23H1, converted the
 GDP-bound forms of Rac1, Cdc42, and RhoA to their GTP-bound forms
 in vitro by its nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity,
 but nm23H1 alone apparently did not produce the GTP-bound form of these
 GTPases in vivo. These results suggest that nm23H1
 negatively regulates Tiam1 and inhibits Rac1 activation in
 vivo. Moreover, adhesion-stimulated membrane ruffles of Rat1
 fibroblasts were reduced by overexpression of nm23H1. Based on these
 observations, we concluded that we had identified a function of nm23H1
 as a regulator of Rac1 and that it may be related to the effect of
 nm23H1 as a tumor metastasis suppressor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Histone deacetylase HDA1, the prototype for the class II mammalian
 deacetylases, is likely the catalytic subunit of the HDA1-containing
 complex that is involved in TUP1-specific repression and global
 deacetylation in yeast. Although the class I RPD3-like enzymatic
 complexes have been well characterized, little is known about the
 identity and interactions of the factors that associate to form the
 HDA1 complex. In this paper, we identify related HDA2 and HDA3 proteins
 that are found in the HDA1 complex and show that HDA1 interacts with
 itself and with the HDA2-HDA3 subcomplex to form a likely tetramer.
 These interactions are necessary for catalytic activity because
 mutations in any of the three components disrupt activity both
 in vitro and in vivo. In this respect the
 HDA1 complex differs from yeast RPD3, which has components such as SIN3
 that are not essential for activity in vitro, and yeast
 HOS3, which has intrinsic in vitro activity as a
 homodimer in the absence of other subunits.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A gene encoding a product with substantial similarity to
 ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) was
 identified in the preliminary genome sequence of the green sulfur
 bacterium Chlorobium tepidum. A highly similar gene was
 subsequently isolated and sequenced from Chlorobium
 limicola f.sp. thiosulfatophilum strain
 Tassajara. Analysis of these amino acid sequences indicated that they
 lacked several conserved RubisCO active site residues. The
 Chlorobium RubisCO-like proteins are most closely
 related to deduced sequences in Bacillus subtilis and
 Archaeoglobus fulgidus, which also lack some typical
 RubisCO active site residues. When the C. tepidum gene
 encoding the RubisCO-like protein was disrupted, the resulting mutant
 strain displayed a pleiotropic phenotype with defects in photopigment
 content, photoautotrophic growth and carbon fixation rates, and sulfur
 metabolism. Most important, the mutant strain showed substantially
 enhanced accumulation of two oxidative stress proteins. These results
 indicated that the C. tepidum RubisCO-like protein might
 be involved in oxidative stress responses and/or sulfur metabolism.
 This protein might be an evolutional link to bona fide
 RubisCO and could serve as an important tool to analyze how the RubisCO
 active site developed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Edman degradation remains the primary method for determining the
 sequence of proteins. In this study, accelerator mass spectrometry was
 used to determine the N-terminal sequence of glutathione
 S-transferase at the attomole level with zeptomole
 precision using a tracer of 14C. The transgenic transferase
 was labeled by growing transformed Escherichia coli on
 [14C]glucose and purified by microaffinity
 chromatography. An internal standard of peptides on a solid phase
 synthesized to release approximately equal amounts of all known amino
 acids with each cycle were found to increase yield of gas phase
 sequencing reactions and subsequent semimicrobore HPLC as did a
 lactoglobulin carrier. This method is applicable to the sequencing of
 proteins from cell culture and illustrates a path to more general
 methods for determining N-terminal sequences with high sensitivity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have determined the solution structure of the C-terminal quarter
 of human poly(A)-binding protein (hPABP). The protein fragment contains
 a protein domain, PABC [for poly(A)-binding protein C-terminal
 domain], which is also found associated with the HECT family of
 ubiquitin ligases. By using peptides derived from PABP interacting
 protein (Paip) 1, Paip2, and eRF3, we show that PABC functions as a
 peptide binding domain. We use chemical shift perturbation analysis to
 identify the peptide binding site in PABC and the major elements
 involved in peptide recognition. From comparative sequence analysis of
 PABC-binding peptides, we formulate a preliminary PABC consensus
 sequence and identify human ataxin-2, the protein responsible for type
 2 spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA2), as a potential PABC ligand.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) recognizes the 3′ mRNA poly(A)
 tail and plays an essential role in eukaryotic translation initiation
 and mRNA stabilization/degradation. PABP is a modular protein, with
 four N-terminal RNA-binding domains and an extensive C terminus. The
 C-terminal region of PABP is essential for normal growth in yeast and
 has been implicated in mediating PABP homo-oligomerization and
 protein–protein interactions. A small, proteolytically stable, highly
 conserved domain has been identified within this C-terminal segment.
 Remarkably, this domain is also present in the hyperplastic discs
 protein (HYD) family of ubiquitin ligases. To better understand the
 function of this conserved region, an x-ray structure of the PABP-like
 segment of the human HYD protein has been determined at 1.04-Å
 resolution. The conserved domain adopts a novel fold resembling a
 right-handed supercoil of four α-helices. Sequence profile searches
 and comparative protein structure modeling identified a small ORF from
 the Arabidopsis thaliana genome that encodes a
 structurally similar but distantly related PABP/HYD domain.
 Phylogenetic analysis of the experimentally determined (HYD) and
 homology modeled (PABP) protein surfaces revealed a conserved feature
 that may be responsible for binding to a PABP interacting protein,
 Paip1, and other shared interaction partners.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Near infrared diffuse optical spectroscopy and diffuse optical
 imaging are promising methods that eventually may enhance or replace
 existing technologies for breast cancer screening and diagnosis. These
 techniques are based on highly sensitive, quantitative measurements of
 optical and functional contrast between healthy and diseased tissue. In
 this study, we examine whether changes in breast physiology caused by
 exogenous hormones, aging, and fluctuations during the menstrual cycle
 result in significant alterations in breast tissue optical contrast. A
 noninvasive quantitative diffuse optical spectroscopy technique,
 frequency-domain photon migration, was used. Measurements were
 performed on 14 volunteer subjects by using a hand-held probe.
 Intrinsic tissue absorption and reduced scattering parameters were
 calculated from frequency-domain photon migration data.
 Wavelength-dependent absorption (at 674, 803, 849, and 956 nm) was used
 to determine tissue concentration of oxyhemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin,
 total hemoglobin, tissue hemoglobin oxygen saturation, and bulk water
 content. Results show significant and dramatic differences in optical
 properties between menopausal states. Average premenopausal intrinsic
 tissue absorption and reduced scattering values at each wavelength are
 2.5- to 3-fold higher and 16–28% greater, respectively, than
 absorption and scattering for postmenopausal subjects. Absorption and
 scattering properties for women using hormone replacement therapy are
 intermediate between premenopausal and postmenopausal populations.
 Physiological properties show differences in mean total hemoglobin (7.0
 μM, 11.8 μM, and 19.2 μM) and water concentration relative to
 pure water (10.9%, 15.3%, and 27.3%) for postmenopausal, hormone
 replacement therapy, and premenopausal subjects, respectively. Because
 of their unique, quantitative information content, diffuse optical
 methods may play an important role in breast diagnostics and improving
 our understanding of breast disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intramolecular electron transfer in azurin in water and deuterium
 oxide has been studied over a broad temperature range. The kinetic
 deuterium isotope effect,
 kH/kD, is
 smaller than unity (0.7 at 298 K), primarily caused by the
 different activation entropies in water (−56.5 J K−1
 mol−1) and in deuterium oxide (−35.7 J K−1
 mol−1). This difference suggests a role for distinct
 protein solvation in the two media, which is supported by the results
 of voltammetric measurements: the reduction potential
 (E0′) of Cu2+/+ at 298 K is
 10 mV more positive in D2O than in H2O. The
 temperature dependence of E0′ is also
 different, yielding entropy changes of −57 J K−1
 mol−1 in water and −84 J K−1
 mol−1 in deuterium oxide. The driving force difference of
 10 mV is in keeping with the kinetic isotope effect, but the
 contribution to ΔS‡ from the temperature
 dependence of E0′ is positive
 rather than negative. Isotope effects are, however, also inherent in
 the nuclear reorganization Gibbs free energy and in the tunneling
 factor for the electron transfer process. A slightly larger thermal
 protein expansion in H2O than in D2O (0.001 nm
 K−1) is sufficient both to account for the activation
 entropy difference and to compensate for the different temperature
 dependencies of E0′. Thus, differences in
 driving force and thermal expansion appear as the most straightforward
 rationale for the observed isotope effect.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The prion protein displays a unique structural ambiguity in that it
 can adopt multiple stable conformations under physiological conditions.
 In our view, this puzzling feature resulted from a sudden environmental
 change in evolution when the prion, previously an integral membrane
 protein, got expelled into the extracellular space. Analysis of known
 vertebrate prions unveils a primordial transmembrane protein encrypted
 in their sequence, underlying this relocalization hypothesis.
 Apparently, the time elapsed since this event was insufficient to
 create a “minimally frustrated” sequence in the new milieu,
 probably due to the functional constraints set by the importance of the
 very flexibility that was created in the relocalization. This scenario
 may explain why, in a structural sense, the prion protein is still en
 route toward becoming a foldable globular protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
All photosynthetic reaction centers share a common structural
 theme. Two related, integral membrane polypeptides sequester electron
 transfer cofactors into two quasi-symmetrical branches, each of which
 incorporates a quinone. In type II reaction centers [photosystem (PS)
 II and proteobacterial reaction centers], electron transfer proceeds
 down only one of the branches, and the mobile quinone on the other
 branch is used as a terminal acceptor. PS I uses iron-sulfur clusters
 as terminal acceptors, and the quinone serves only as an intermediary
 in electron transfer. Much effort has been devoted to understanding the
 unidirectionality of electron transport in type II reaction centers,
 and it was widely thought that  PS I would share this feature.
 We have tested this idea by examining in vivo kinetics
 of electron transfer from the quinone in mutant PS I reaction
 centers. This transfer is associated with two kinetic components, and
 we show that mutation of a residue near the quinone in one branch
 specifically affects the faster component, while the corresponding
 mutation in the other branch specifically affects the slower component.
 We conclude that both electron transfer branches in PS I are active.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus (JSRV) can induce rapid,
 multifocal lung cancer, but JSRV is a simple retrovirus having no known
 oncogenes. Here we show that the envelope (env) gene of
 JSRV has the unusual property that it can induce transformation in rat
 fibroblasts, and thus is likely to be responsible for oncogenesis in
 animals. Retrovirus entry into cells is mediated by Env interaction
 with particular cell-surface receptors, and we have used phenotypic
 screening of radiation hybrid cell lines to identify the candidate lung
 cancer tumor suppressor HYAL2/LUCA2 as the receptor for JSRV. HYAL2
 was previously described as a lysosomal hyaluronidase, but we show that
 HYAL2 is actually a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored
 cell-surface protein. Furthermore, we could not detect hyaluronidase
 activity associated with or secreted by cells expressing HYAL2, whereas
 we could easily detect such activity from cells expressing the related
 serum hyaluronidase HYAL1. Although the function of HYAL2 is currently
 unknown, other GPI-anchored proteins are involved in signal
 transduction, and some mediate mitogenic responses, suggesting a
 potential role of HYAL2 in JSRV Env-mediated oncogenesis. Lung cancer
 induced by JSRV closely resembles human bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma,
 a disease that is increasing in frequency and now accounts for ≈25%
 of all lung cancer. The finding that JSRV env is
 oncogenic and the identification of HYAL2 as the JSRV receptor provide
 tools for further investigation of the mechanism of JSRV oncogenesis
 and its relationship to human bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus (JSRV) is the causative agent of ovine
 pulmonary carcinoma, a unique animal model for human bronchioalveolar
 carcinoma. We previously isolated a JSRV proviral clone and showed that
 it was both infectious and oncogenic. Thus JSRV is necessary and
 sufficient for the development of ovine pulmonary carcinoma, but no
 data are available on the mechanisms of transformation. Inspection of
 the JSRV genome reveals standard retroviral genes, but no evidence for
 a viral oncogene. However, an alternate ORF in pol
 (orf-x) might be a candidate for a transforming gene. We
 tested whether the JSRV genome might encode a transforming gene by
 transfecting an expression plasmid for JSRV [pCMVJS21, driven by the
 cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate early promoter] into mouse NIH 3T3
 cells. Foci of transformed cells appeared in the transfected cultures
 2–3 weeks posttransfection; cloned transformants showed anchorage
 independence for growth, and they expressed JSRV RNA. These results
 indicate that the JRSV genome contains information with direct
 transforming potential for NIH 3T3 cells. Transfection of a mutated
 version of pCMVJS21 in which the orf-x protein was
 terminated by two stop codons also gave transformed foci. Thus,
 orf-x was eliminated as the candidate transforming gene.
 In addition, another derivative of pCMVJS21 (pCMVJS21ΔGP) in which
 the gag, pol (and orf-x)
 coding sequences were deleted also gave transformed foci. These results
 indicate that the envelope gene carries the transforming potential.
 This is an unusual example of a native retroviral structural protein
 with transformation potential.
DOC DONE!Abstract
p19ARF suppresses the growth of cells lacking p53 through an
 unknown mechanism. p19ARF was found to complex with transcription
 factors E2F1, -2, and -3. Levels of endogenous or
 ectopically expressed E2F1, -2, and -3, but not E2F6, were reduced
 after synthesis of p19ARF, through a mechanism involving increased
 turnover. p19ARF-induced degradation of E2F1 depended on a functional
 proteasome, and E2F1 was relocalized to nucleoli when coexpressed with
 p19ARF. Consistent with reduced levels of E2F1 and E2F3, the
 proliferation of cells defective for p53 function was suppressed by
 p19ARF, and the effect was partially reversed by ectopic overexpression
 of E2F1. These results suggest a broader role for p19ARF as a tumor
 suppressor, in which targeting of certain E2F species may cooperate
 with stimulation of the p53 pathway to counteract oncogenic growth
 signals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutant I1A cells, lacking IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)
 mRNA and protein, have been used to study the involvement of IRAK in
 NFκB and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. A series of IRAK
 deletion constructs were expressed in I1A cells, which were then tested
 for their ability to respond to IL-1. Both the N-terminal death domain
 and the C-terminal region of IRAK are required for IL-1-induced NFκB
 and JNK activation, whereas the N-proximal undetermined domain is
 required for the activation of NFκB but not JNK. The phosphorylation
 and ubiquitination of IRAK deletion mutants correlate tightly with
 their ability to activate NFκB in response to IL-1, but IRAK can
 mediate IL-1-induced JNK activation without being phosphorylated. These
 studies reveal that the IL-1-induced signaling pathways leading to
 NFκB and JNK activation diverge either at IRAK or at a point nearer
 to the receptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Niemann–Pick type C1 (NPC1) disease results from a defect in the
 NPC1 protein and is characterized by a pathological accumulation of
 cholesterol and glycolipids in endocytic organelles. We followed the
 biosynthesis and trafficking of NPC1 with the use of a functional green
 fluorescent protein-fused NPC1. Newly synthesized NPC1 is exported from
 the endoplasmic reticulum and requires transit through the Golgi before
 it is targeted to late endosomes. NPC1-containing late endosomes then
 move by a dynamic process involving tubulation and fission, followed by
 rapid retrograde and anterograde migration along microtubules. Cell
 fusion studies with normal and mutant NPC1 cells show that exchange of
 contents between late endosomes and lysosomes depends upon ongoing
 tubulovesicular late endocytic trafficking. In turn, rapid endosomal
 tubular movement requires an intact NPC1 sterol-sensing domain and is
 retarded by an elevated endosomal cholesterol content. We conclude that
 the neuropathology and cellular lysosomal lipid accumulation in NPC1
 disease results, at least in part, from striking defects in late
 endosomal tubulovesicular trafficking.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transcriptional response to epidermal growth factor (EGF) was
 examined in a cultured cell model of adhesion. Gene expression was
 monitored in human embryonic kidney cells (HEK293) after attachment of
 cells to the extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, laminin, and
 fibronectin, by using complementary DNA micorarrays printed with 1,718
 individual human genes. Cluster analysis revealed that the influence of
 EGF on gene expression, either positive or negative, was largely
 independent of ECM composition. However, clusters of EGF-regulated
 genes were identified that were diagnostic of the type of ECM proteins
 to which cells were attached. In these clusters, attachment of cells to
 a laminin or fibronectin substrata specifically modified the direction
 of gene expression changes in response to EGF stimulation. For example,
 in HEK293 cells attached to fibronectin, EGF stimulated an increase in
 the expression of some genes; however, genes in the same group were
 nonresponsive or even suppressed in cells attached to laminin. Many of
 the genes regulated by EGF and ECM proteins in this manner are involved
 in ECM and cytoskeletal architecture, protein synthesis, and cell cycle
 control, indicating that cell responses to EGF stimulation can be
 dramatically affected by ECM composition.
DOC DONE!Abstract
One of the striking features of vascular endothelium, the
 single-cell-thick lining of the cardiovascular system, is its
 phenotypic plasticity. Various pathophysiologic factors, such as
 cytokines, growth factors, hormones, and metabolic products, can
 modulate its functional phenotype in health and disease. In addition to
 these humoral stimuli, endothelial cells respond to their biomechanical
 environment, although the functional implications of this biomechanical
 paradigm of activation have not been fully explored. Here we describe a
 high-throughput genomic analysis of modulation of gene expression
 observed in cultured human endothelial cells exposed to two well
 defined biomechanical stimuli—a steady laminar shear stress and a
 turbulent shear stress of equivalent spatial and temporal average
 intensity. Comparison of the transcriptional activity of 11,397 unique
 genes revealed distinctive patterns of up- and down-regulation
 associated with each type of stimulus. Cluster analyses of
 transcriptional profiling data were coupled with other molecular and
 cell biological techniques to examine whether these global patterns of
 biomechanical activation are translated into distinct functional
 phenotypes. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy of structural and
 contractile proteins revealed the formation of a complex apical
 cytoskeleton in response to laminar shear stress. Cell cycle analysis
 documented different effects of laminar and turbulent shear stresses on
 cell proliferation. Thus, endothelial cells have the capacity to
 discriminate among specific biomechanical forces and to translate these
 input stimuli into distinctive phenotypes. The demonstration that
 hemodynamically derived stimuli can be strong modulators of
 endothelial gene expression has important implications for our
 understanding of the mechanisms of vascular homeostasis and
 atherogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We localized the multicopy plasmid RK2 in Escherichia
 coli and found that the number of fluorescent foci observed in
 each cell was substantially less than the copy number of the plasmid,
 suggesting that many copies of RK2 are grouped into a few multiplasmid
 clusters. In minimal glucose media, the majority of cells had one or
 two foci, with a single focus localized near midcell, and two foci near
 the 1/4 and 3/4 cell positions. The number of foci per cell
 increased with cell length and with growth rate, and decreased upon
 entering stationary phase, suggesting a coordination of RK2 replication
 or segregation with the bacterial cell cycle. Time-lapse microscopy
 demonstrated that partitioning of RK2 foci is achieved by the splitting
 of a single focus into two or three smaller foci, which are capable of
 separating with rapid kinetics. A derivative of the high-copy-number
 plasmid pUC19 containing the lacO array was also
 localized by tagging with GFP-LacI. Whereas many of the cells contained
 numerous, randomly diffusing foci, most cells exhibited one or two
 plasmid clusters located at midcell or the cell quarter positions. Our
 results suggest a model in which multicopy plasmids are not always
 randomly diffusing throughout the cell as previously thought, but can
 be replicated and partitioned in clusters targeted to specific
 locations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Metaphase checkpoint controls sense abnormalities of chromosome
 alignment during mitosis and prevent progression to anaphase until
 proper alignment has been attained. A number of proteins, including
 mad2, bub1, and bubR1, have been implicated in the metaphase checkpoint
 control in mammalian cells. Metaphase checkpoints have been shown, in
 various systems, to read loss of either spindle tension or microtubule
 attachment at the kinetochore. Characteristically, HeLa cells arrest in
 metaphase in response to low levels of microtubule inhibitors that
 leave an intact spindle and a metaphase plate. Here we show that the
 arrest induced by nanomolar vinblastine correlates with loss of tension
 at the kinetochore, and that in response the checkpoint proteins bub1
 and bubR1 are recruited to the kinetochore but mad2 is not. mad2
 remains competent to respond and is recruited at higher drug doses that
 disrupt spindle association with the kinetochores. Further, although
 mad2 forms a complex with cdc20, it does not associate with bub1 or
 bubR1. We conclude that mammalian bub1/bubR1 and mad2 operate as
 elements of distinct pathways sensing tension and attachment,
 respectively.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Failures to arrest growth in response to senescence or
 transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) are key derangements
 associated with carcinoma progression. We report that activation of
 telomerase activity may overcome both inhibitory pathways. Ectopic
 expression of the human telomerase catalytic subunit, hTERT, in
 cultured human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) lacking both telomerase
 activity and p16INK4A resulted in gaining the ability to
 maintain indefinite growth in the absence and presence of TGF-β. The
 ability to maintain growth in TGF-β was independent of telomere
 length and required catalytically active telomerase capable of telomere
 maintenance in vivo. The capacity of ectopic hTERT to
 induce TGF-β resistance may explain our previously described gain of
 TGF-β resistance after reactivation of endogenous
 telomerase activity in rare carcinogen-treated HMEC. In those HMEC that
 overcame senescence, both telomerase activity and TGF-β resistance
 were acquired gradually during a process we have termed conversion.
 This effect of hTERT may model a key change occurring during
 in vivo human breast carcinogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report here a hitherto undescribed form of cell migration. When
 a suspension of human keratinocytes is plated on a fibrin matrix,
 single cells invade the matrix and progress through it as rounded cells
 by dissolving the fibrin and thereby creating tunnels. These tunnels
 are cylindrical or helical, the latter being the result of constant
 change in the path of cellular advance around the helical axis. Helical
 tunnel formation is strongly promoted by epidermal growth factor. The
 rate of migration of the cell through the track of a helical tunnel (up
 to 2.1 mm per day) is about 7-fold greater than through a cylindrical
 tunnel. Pericellular fibrinolysis leading to tunnel formation depends
 on the presence of plasminogen in the medium and its conversion to
 plasmin by a cellular activator. Formation of tunnels requires that
 plasminogen activator be localized on the advancing surface of the
 keratinocyte; we propose that the tunnel is cylindrical when the site
 of release of plasmin is located at a fixed point on the cell surface
 and helical when the site of release precesses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(WAF1/CIP1)
 inhibits proliferation both in vitro and in
 vivo, and overexpression of p21 in normal and tumor cell lines
 results in cell cycle arrest. In contrast, ectopic expression of Myc
 alleviates G1 cell cycle arrest. Recent studies showed that
 Myc can repress p21 transcription, thereby overriding a p21-mediated
 cell cycle checkpoint. We found that activation of a Myc-estrogen
 receptor fusion protein by 4-hydroxytamoxifen in mouse cells resulted
 in suppression of endogenous p21 transcription. This effect
 was observed in the absence of de novo protein synthesis
 and was independent of histone deacetylase activity. In transient
 transfection studies, Myc effectively repressed p21 promoter constructs
 containing only 119 bp of sequence upstream of the transcription start
 site. This region contains multiple Sp1-binding sites and a potential
 initiator element, but no canonical Myc DNA-binding sites. Deletion of
 the potential initiator element does not affect repression of the p21
 promoter by c-Myc. Coimmunoprecipitation and glutathione
 S-transferase pull-down experiments demonstrate that
 c-Myc may form complexes with Sp1/Sp3. We found that the central
 region of c-Myc interacts with the zinc finger domain of Sp1. Because
 Sp1 is required for p21 transcription, it is possible that Myc may
 down-regulate p21 transcription, at least in part, by sequestering Sp1.
 Repression of the p21 promoter may contribute to the ability of c-Myc
 to promote cell proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cells of the craniofacial skeleton are derived from a common
 mesenchymal progenitor. The regulatory factors that control their
 differentiation into various cell lineages are unknown. To investigate
 the biological function of dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1), an
 extracellular matrix gene involved in calcified tissue formation,
 stable transgenic cell lines and adenovirally infected cells
 overexpressing DMP1 were generated. The findings in this paper
 demonstrate that overexpression of DMP1 in pluripotent and
 mesenchyme-derived cells such as C3H10T1/2, MC3T3-E1, and RPC-C2A can
 induce these cells to differentiate and form functional
 odontoblast-like cells. Functional differentiation of odontoblasts
 requires unique sets of genes being turned on and off in a growth- and
 differentiation-specific manner. The genes studied include
 transcription factors like core binding factor 1 (Cbfa1), bone
 morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), and BMP4; early markers for
 extracellular matrix deposition like alkaline phosphatase (ALP),
 osteopontin, osteonectin, and osteocalcin; and late markers like DMP2
 and dentin sialoprotein (DSP) that are expressed by terminally
 differentiated odontoblasts and are responsible for the formation of
 tissue-specific dentin matrix. However, this differentiation pathway
 was limited to mesenchyme-derived cells only. Other cell lines tested
 by the adenoviral expression system failed to express
 odontoblast-phenotypic specific genes. An in vitro
 mineralized nodule formation assay demonstrated that overexpressed
 cells could differentiate and form a mineralized matrix. Furthermore,
 we also demonstrate that phosphorylation of Cbfa1 (osteoblast-specific
 transcription factor) was not required for the expression of
 odontoblast-specific genes, indicating the involvement of other
 unidentified odontoblast-specific transcription factors or
 coactivators. Cell lines that differentiate into odontoblast-like cells
 are useful tools for studying the mechanism involved in the terminal
 differentiation process of these postmitotic cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The placenta contains several types of feto-maternal
 interfaces where zygote-derived cells interact with maternal cells or
 maternal blood for the promotion of fetal growth and viability. The
 genetic factors regulating the interactions between different cell
 types within feto-maternal interfaces and the relative contributions of
 the maternal and zygotic genomes are poorly understood. Genomic
 imprinting, the epigenetic process responsible for parental
 origin-dependent functional differences between homologous chromosomes,
 has been proposed to contribute to these events. Previous studies
 showed that mouse conceptuses with an absence of imprinted differences
 between the two copies of chromosome 12 (upon paternal inheritance of
 both copies) die late in gestation and have a variety of defects,
 including placentomegaly. Here we examined the role of chromosome 12
 imprinting in these placentae in more detail. We show that the spatial
 interactions between different cell types within feto-maternal
 interfaces are defective and identify abnormal behaviors in both
 zygote-derived and maternal cells that are attributed to the genome of
 the zygote but not the mother. These include compromised invasion of
 the maternal decidualized endometrium and the central maternal artery
 situated within it by zygote-derived trophoblast, abnormalities in the
 wall of the central maternal artery, and defects within the
 zygote-derived cellular layer of the labyrinth, which is in direct
 contact with maternal blood. These findings demonstrate multiple roles
 for chromosome 12 imprinting in the placenta that have not previously
 been associated with imprinting effects. They provide insights into the
 function of imprinting in placental development and have evolutionary
 and clinical implications.
DOC DONE!Abstract
During mouse embryogenesis, two waves of hematopoietic progenitors
 originate in the yolk sac. The first wave consists of primitive
 erythroid progenitors that arise at embryonic day 7.0 (E7.0), whereas
 the second wave consists of definitive erythroid progenitors that arise
 at E8.25. To determine whether these unilineage hematopoietic
 progenitors arise from multipotential precursors, we investigated the
 kinetics of high proliferative potential colony-forming cells
 (HPP-CFC), multipotent precursors that give rise to macroscopic
 colonies when cultured in vitro. No HPP-CFC were found
 at presomite stages (E6.5–E7.5). Rather, HPP-CFC were detected first
 at early somite stages (E8.25), exclusively in the yolk sac. HPP-CFC
 were found subsequently in the bloodstream at higher levels than the
 remainder of the embryo proper. However, the yolk sac remains the
 predominant site of HPP-CFC expansion (>100-fold) until the liver
 begins to serve as the major hematopoietic organ at E11.5. On secondary
 replating, embryonic HPP-CFC give rise to definitive erythroid and
 macrophage (but not primitive erythroid) progenitors. Our findings
 support the hypothesis that definitive but not primitive hematopoietic
 progenitors originate from yolk sac-derived HPP-CFC during late
 gastrulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The search for a common cause of species richness gradients has
 spawned more than 100 explanatory hypotheses in just the past two
 decades. Despite recent conceptual advances, further refinement of the
 most plausible models has been stifled by the difficulty of compiling
 high-resolution databases at continental scales. We used a database of
 the geographic ranges of 2,869 species of birds breeding in South
 America (nearly a third of the world's living avian species) to
 explore the influence of climate, quadrat area, ecosystem diversity,
 and topography on species richness gradients at 10 spatial scales
 (quadrat area, ≈12,300 to ≈1,225,000 km2). Topography,
 precipitation, topography × latitude, ecosystem diversity, and
 cloud cover emerged as the most important predictors of regional
 variability of species richness in regression models incorporating 16
 independent variables, although ranking of variables depended on
 spatial scale. Direct measures of ambient energy such as mean and
 maximum temperature were of ancillary importance. Species richness
 values for 1° × 1° latitude-longitude quadrats in the Andes
 (peaking at 845 species) were ≈30–250% greater than those recorded
 at equivalent latitudes in the central Amazon basin. These findings
 reflect the extraordinary abundance of species associated with humid
 montane regions at equatorial latitudes and the importance of orography
 in avian speciation. In a broader context, our data reinforce the
 hypothesis that terrestrial species richness from the equator to the
 poles is ultimately governed by a synergism between climate and
 coarse-scale topographic heterogeneity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Identifying the types and distributions of organic substrates that
 support microbial activities around plant roots is essential for a full
 understanding of plant–microbe interactions and rhizosphere ecology.
 We have constructed a strain of the soil bacterium Sinorhizobium
 meliloti containing a gfp gene fused to the
 melA promoter which is induced on exposure to galactose
 and galactosides. We used the fusion strain as a biosensor to determine
 that galactosides are released from the seeds of several different
 legume species during germination and are also released from roots of
 alfalfa seedlings growing on artificial medium. Galactoside presence in
 seed wash and sterile root washes was confirmed by HPLC. Experiments
 examining microbial growth on α-galactosides in seed wash suggested
 that α-galactoside utilization could play an important role in
 supporting growth of S. meliloti near germinating seeds
 of alfalfa. When inoculated into microcosms containing legumes or
 grasses, the biosensor allowed us to visualize the localized presence
 of galactosides on and around roots in unsterilized soil, as well as
 the grazing of fluorescent bacteria by protozoa. Galactosides were
 present in patches around zones of lateral root initiation and around
 roots hairs, but not around root tips. Such biosensors can reveal
 intriguing aspects of the environment and the physiology of the
 free-living soil S. meliloti before and during the
 establishment of nodulation, and they provide a nondestructive,
 spatially explicit method for examining rhizosphere soil chemical
 composition.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Paleontological data for the diversity of marine animals and
 land plants are shown to correlate significantly with a concurrent
 measure of stable carbon isotope fractionation for approximately the
 last 400 million years. The correlations can be deduced from the
 assumption that increasing plant diversity led to increasing chemical
 weathering of rocks and therefore an increasing flux of carbon from the
 atmosphere to rocks, and nutrients from the continents to the oceans.
 The CO2 concentration dependence of photosynthetic carbon
 isotope fractionation then indicates that the diversification of land
 plants led to decreasing CO2 levels, while the
 diversification of marine animals derived from increasing nutrient
 availability. Under the explicit assumption that global biodiversity
 grows with global biomass, the conservation of carbon shows that the
 long-term fluctuations of CO2 levels were dominated by
 complementary changes in the biological and fluid reservoirs of carbon,
 while the much larger geological reservoir remained relatively constant
 in size. As a consequence, the paleontological record of biodiversity
 provides an indirect estimate of the fluctuations of ancient
 CO2 levels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present here the description of genes coding for molluscan
 hemocyanins. Two distantly related mollusks, Haliotis
 tuberculata and Octopus dofleini, were studied.
 The typical architecture of a molluscan hemocyanin subunit, which is a
 string of seven or eight globular functional units (FUs, designated a
 to h, about 50 kDa each), is reflected by the gene organization: a
 series of eight structurally related coding regions in
 Haliotis, corresponding to FU-a to FU-h, with seven
 highly variable linker introns of 174 to 3,198 bp length (all in phase
 1). In Octopus seven coding regions (FU-a to FU-g) are
 found, separated by phase 1 introns varying in length from 100 bp to
 910 bp. Both genes exhibit typical signal (export) sequences, and in
 both cases these are interrupted by an additional intron. Each gene
 also contains an intron between signal peptide and FU-a and in the 3′
 untranslated region. Of special relevance for evolutionary
 considerations are introns interrupting those regions that encode a
 discrete functional unit. We found that five of the eight FUs in
 Haliotis each are encoded by a single exon, whereas
 FU-f, FU-g, and FU-a are encoded by two, three and four exons,
 respectively. Similarly, in Octopus four of the FUs each
 correspond to an uninterrupted exon, whereas FU-b, FU-e, and FU-f each
 contain a single intron. Although the positioning of the introns
 between FUs is highly conserved in the two mollusks, the introns within
 FUs show no relationship either in location nor phase. It is proposed
 that the introns between FUs were generated as the eight-unit
 polypeptide evolved from a monomeric precursor, and that the internal
 introns have been added later. A hypothesis for evolution of the
 ring-like quaternary structure of molluscan hemocyanins is presented.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe compartmentalized self-replication (CSR), a strategy
 for the directed evolution of enzymes, especially polymerases. CSR is
 based on a simple feedback loop consisting of a polymerase that
 replicates only its own encoding gene. Compartmentalization serves to
 isolate individual self-replication reactions from each other. In such
 a system, adaptive gains directly (and proportionally) translate into
 genetic amplification of the encoding gene. CSR has applications in the
 evolution of polymerases with novel and useful properties. By using
 three cycles of CSR, we obtained variants of Taq DNA
 polymerase with 11-fold higher thermostability than the wild-type
 enzyme or with a >130-fold increased resistance to the potent
 inhibitor heparin. Insertion of an extra stage into the CSR cycle
 before the polymerase reaction allows its application to enzymes other
 than polymerases. We show that nucleoside diphosphate kinase and
 Taq polymerase can form such a cooperative CSR cycle
 based on reciprocal catalysis, whereby nucleoside diphosphate kinase
 produces the substrates required for the replication of its own gene.
 We also find that in CSR the polymerase genes themselves evolve toward
 more efficient replication. Thus, polymerase genes and their encoded
 polypeptides cooperate to maximize postselection copy number. CSR
 should prove useful for the directed evolution of enzymes, particularly
 DNA or RNA polymerases, as well as for the design and study of
 in vitro self-replicating systems mimicking
 prebiotic evolution and viral replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Long-distance population dispersal leaves its characteristic
 signature in genomes, namely, reduced diversity and increased linkage
 between genetic markers. This signature enables historical patterns of
 range expansion to be traced. Herein, we use microsatellite loci from
 the human pathogen Coccidioides immitis to show that
 genetic diversity in this fungus is geographically partitioned
 throughout North America. In contrast, analyses of South American
 C. immitis show that this population is genetically
 depauperate and was founded from a single North American population
 centered in Texas. Variances of allele distributions show that South
 American C. immitis have undergone rapid population
 growth, consistent with an epidemic increase in postcolonization
 population size. Herein, we estimate the introduction into South
 America to have occurred within the last 9,000–140,000 years. This
 range increase parallels that of Homo sapiens. Because
 of known associations between Amerindians and this fungus, we suggest
 that the colonization of South America by C. immitis
 represents a relatively recent and rapid codispersal of a host and its
 pathogen.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A maximum likelihood estimator based on the coalescent for
 unequal migration rates and different subpopulation sizes is developed.
 The method uses a Markov chain Monte Carlo approach to investigate
 possible genealogies with branch lengths and with migration events.
 Properties of the new method are shown by using simulated data from a
 four-population n-island model and a source–sink
 population model. Our estimation method as coded in migrate
 is tested against genetree; both programs deliver a very
 similar likelihood surface. The algorithm converges to the estimates
 fairly quickly, even when the Markov chain is started from unfavorable
 parameters. The method was used to estimate gene flow in the Nile
 valley by using mtDNA data from three human populations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein–protein interactions play crucial roles in the execution
 of various biological functions. Accordingly, their comprehensive
 description would contribute considerably to the functional
 interpretation of fully sequenced genomes, which are flooded with novel
 genes of unpredictable functions. We previously developed a system to
 examine two-hybrid interactions in all possible combinations between
 the ≈6,000 proteins of the budding yeast Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae. Here we have completed the comprehensive analysis
 using this system to identify 4,549 two-hybrid interactions among 3,278
 proteins. Unexpectedly, these data do not largely overlap with those
 obtained by the other project [Uetz, P., et al. (2000)
 Nature (London) 403, 623–627] and hence have
 substantially expanded our knowledge on the protein interaction space
 or interactome of the yeast. Cumulative connection of these binary
 interactions generates a single huge network linking the vast majority
 of the proteins. Bioinformatics-aided selection of biologically
 relevant interactions highlights various intriguing subnetworks. They
 include, for instance, the one that had successfully foreseen the
 involvement of a novel protein in spindle pole body function as well as
 the one that may uncover a hitherto unidentified multiprotein complex
 potentially participating in the process of vesicular transport. Our
 data would thus significantly expand and improve the protein
 interaction map for the exploration of genome functions that eventually
 leads to thorough understanding of the cell as a molecular system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ANX7 gene is located on human chromosome 10q21,
 a site long hypothesized to harbor a tumor suppressor gene(s) (TSG)
 associated with prostate and other cancers. To test whether
 ANX7 might be a candidate TSG, we examined the
 ANX7-dependent suppression of human tumor cell growth,
 stage-specific ANX7 expression in 301 prostate specimens on a prostate
 tissue microarray, and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of microsatellite
 markers at or near the ANX7 locus. Here we report that
 human tumor cell proliferation and colony formation are markedly
 reduced when the wild-type ANX7 gene is transfected into
 two prostate tumor cell lines, LNCaP and DU145. Consistently, analysis
 of ANX7 protein expression in human prostate tumor microarrays reveals
 a significantly higher rate of loss of ANX7 expression in metastatic
 and local recurrences of hormone refractory prostate cancer as compared
 with primary tumors (P = 0.0001). Using four
 microsatellite markers at or near the ANX7 locus, and
 laser capture microdissected tumor cells, 35% of the 20 primary
 prostate tumors show LOH. The microsatellite marker closest to the
 ANX7 locus showed the highest rate of LOH, including one
 homozygous deletion. We conclude that the ANX7 gene
 exhibits many biological and genetic properties expected of a TSG and
 may play a role in prostate cancer progression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Retinoid X receptors (RXRs) are involved in a number of signaling
 pathways as heterodimeric partners of numerous nuclear receptors.
 Hepatocytes express high levels of the RXRα isotype, as well as
 several of its putative heterodimeric partners. Germ-line disruption
 (knockout) of RXRα has been shown to be lethal in
 utero, thus precluding analysis of its function at later life
 stages. Hepatocyte-specific disruption of RXRα during liver
 organogenesis has recently revealed that the presence of hepatocytes is
 not mandatory for the mouse, at least under normal mouse facility
 conditions, even though a number of metabolic events are impaired
 [Wan, Y.-J., et al. (2000) Mol. Cell.
 Biol. 20, 4436–4444]. However, it is unknown whether RXRα
 plays a role in the control of hepatocyte proliferation and lifespan.
 Here, we report a detailed analysis of the liver of mice in which
 RXRα was selectively ablated in adult hepatocytes by using the
 tamoxifen-inducible chimeric Cre recombinase system. Our results show
 that the lifespan of adult hepatocytes lacking RXRα is shorter than
 that of their wild-type counterparts, whereas proliferative hepatocytes
 of regenerating liver exhibit an even shorter lifespan. These lifespan
 shortenings are accompanied by increased polyploidy and
 multinuclearity. We conclude that RXRα plays important
 cell-autonomous function(s) in the mechanism(s) involved in the
 lifespan of hepatocytes and liver regeneration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The spectrum of immunogenic epitopes presented by the
 H2-IAb MHC class II molecule to CD4+ T cells
 has been defined for two different (clade B and clade D) HIV envelope
 (gp140) glycoproteins. Hybridoma T cell lines were generated from mice
 immunized by a sequential prime and boost regime with DNA, recombinant
 vaccinia viruses, and protein. The epitopes recognized by reactive T
 cell hybridomas then were characterized with overlapping peptides
 synthesized to span the entire gp140 sequence. Evidence of clonality
 also was assessed with antibodies to T cell receptor Vα and Vβ
 chains. A total of 80 unique clonotypes were characterized from six
 individual mice. Immunogenic peptides were identified within only four
 regions of the HIV envelope. These epitope hotspots comprised
 relatively short sequences (≈20–80 aa in length) that were generally
 bordered by regions of heavy glycosylation. Analysis in the context of
 the gp120 crystal structure showed a pattern of uniform distribution to
 exposed, nonhelical strands of the protein. A likely explanation is
 that the physical location of the peptide within the native protein
 leads to differential antigen processing and consequent epitope
 selection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transition-state theory has led to the design of Immucillin-H
 (Imm-H), a picomolar inhibitor of purine nucleoside phosphorylase
 (PNP). In humans, PNP is the only route for degradation of
 deoxyguanosine, and genetic deficiency of this enzyme leads to
 profound T cell-mediated immunosuppression. This study reports the
 biological effects and mechanism of action of Imm-H on malignant T cell
 lines and on normal activated human peripheral T cells. Imm-H inhibits
 the growth of malignant T cell leukemia lines with the induction of
 apoptosis. Imm-H also inhibits activated normal human T cells
 after antigenic stimulation in vitro. However, Imm-H did
 not inhibit malignant B cells, colon cancer cell lines, or normal human
 nonstimulated T cells, demonstrating the selective activity of Imm-H.
 The effects on leukemia cells were mediated by the cellular
 phosphorylation of deoxyguanosine and the accumulation of dGTP, an
 inhibitor of ribonucleotide diphosphate reductase. Cells were protected
 from the toxic effects of Imm-H when deoxyguanosine was absent or
 when deoxycytidine was present. Guanosine incorporation into nucleic
 acids was selectively blocked by Imm-H with no effect on guanine,
 adenine, adenosine, or deoxycytidine incorporation. Imm-H may have
 clinical potential for treatment of human T cell leukemia and lymphoma
 and for other diseases characterized by abnormal activation of T
 lymphocytes. The design of Imm-H from an enzymatic transition-state
 analysis exemplifies a powerful approach for developing high-affinity
 enzyme inhibitors with pharmacologic activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cross-linking of the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcɛRI) on mast
 cells with IgE and multivalent antigen triggers mitogen-activated
 protein (MAP) kinase activation and cytokine gene expression. We report
 here that MAP kinase kinase 4 (MKK4) gene disruption does not affect
 either MAP kinase activation or cytokine gene expression in response to
 cross-linking of FcɛRI in embryonic stem cell-derived mast cells.
 MKK7 is activated in response to cross-linking of FcɛRI, and this
 activation is inhibited by MAP/ERK kinase (MEK) kinase 2 (MEKK2) gene
 disruption. In addition, expression of kinase-inactive MKK7 in the
 murine mast cell line MC/9 inhibits c-Jun NH2-terminal
 kinase (JNK) activation in response to cross-linking of FcɛRI,
 whereas expression of kinase-inactive MKK4 does not affect JNK
 activation by this stimulus. However, FcɛRI-induced activation of the
 tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) gene promoter is not affected by
 expression of kinase-inactive MKK7. We describe an alternative pathway
 by which MEKK2 activates MEK5 and big MAP kinase1/extracellular
 signal-regulated kinase 5 in addition to MKK7 and JNK, and interruption
 of this pathway inhibits TNF-α promoter activation. These findings
 suggest that JNK activation by antigen cross-linking is dependent on
 the MEKK2-MKK7 pathway, and cytokine production in mast cells is
 regulated in part by the signaling complex MEKK2-MEK5-ERK5.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although the systemic administration of a number of different gene
 products has been shown to result in the inhibition of angiogenesis and
 tumor growth in different animal tumor models, the relative potency of
 those gene products has not been studied rigorously. To address this
 issue, recombinant adenoviruses encoding angiostatin, endostatin, and
 the ligand-binding ectodomains of the vascular endothelial growth
 factor receptors Flk1, Flt1, and neuropilin were generated and used to
 systemically deliver the different gene products in several different
 preexisting murine tumor models. Single i.v. injections of viruses
 encoding soluble forms of Flk1 or Flt1 resulted in ≈80% inhibition
 of preexisting tumor growth in murine models involving both murine
 (Lewis lung carcinoma, T241 fibrosarcoma) and human (BxPC3 pancreatic
 carcinoma) tumors. In contrast, adenoviruses encoding angiostatin,
 endostatin, or neuropilin were significantly less effective. A strong
 correlation was observed between the effects of the different viruses
 on tumor growth and the activity of the viruses in the inhibition of
 corneal micropocket angiogenesis. These data underscore the need for
 comparative analyses of different therapeutic approaches that target
 tumor angiogenesis and provide a rationale for the selection of
 specific antiangiogenic gene products as lead candidates for use in
 gene therapy approaches aimed at the treatment of malignant and ocular
 disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nrf2, a member of the “cap ‘n collar” group of transcription
 factors, is important for protecting cells against oxidative damage. We
 investigated its role in the detoxification of acetaminophen
 [N-acetyl-p-aminophenol (APAP)]-induced
 hepatotoxicity. When Nrf2 knockout (Nrf2−/−) and
 wild-type mice were given APAP by i.p. injection, the
 Nrf2−/− mice were highly susceptible to APAP treatment.
 With doses of APAP that were tolerated by wild-type mice, the
 Nrf2−/− mice died of liver failure. When hepatic
 glutathione was depleted after a dose of 400 mg/kg of APAP, the
 wild-type mice were able to compensate and regain the normal
 glutathione level. In contrast, the glutathione level in the
 Nrf2−/− mice was not compensated and remained low. This
 was because of the decrease in the gene expression of
 gcsH and gcsL as
 well as gss in the livers of the Nrf2−/−
 mice. In addition, the expression of ugt1a6 and
 gstpi that detoxify APAP by conjugation was also
 decreased. This increased susceptibility of the Nrf2−/−
 mice to APAP, because of an impaired capacity to replenish their
 glutathione stores, compounded with a decreased detoxification
 capability, highlights the importance of Nrf2 in the regulation of
 glutathione synthesis and cellular detoxification processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have spectroscopically determined breath ammonia levels in seven
 patients with end-stage renal disease while they were undergoing
 hemodialysis at the University of California, Los Angeles, dialysis
 center. We correlated these measurements against simultaneously taken
 blood samples that were analyzed for blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and
 creatinine, which are the accepted standards indicating the level of
 nitrogenous waste loading in a patient's bloodstream. Initial levels
 of breath ammonia, i.e., at the beginning of dialysis, are between
 1,500 ppb and 2,000 ppb (parts per billion). These levels drop very
 sharply in the first 15–30 min as the dialysis proceeds. We found the
 reduction in breath ammonia concentration to be relatively slow from
 this point on to the end of dialysis treatment, at which point the
 levels tapered off at 150 to 200 ppb. For each breath ammonia
 measurement, taken at 15–30 min intervals during the dialysis, we also
 sampled the patient's blood for BUN and creatinine. The breath ammonia
 data were available in real time, whereas the BUN and creatinine data
 were available generally 24 h later from the laboratory. We found
 a good correlation between breath ammonia concentration and BUN and
 creatinine. For one of the patients, the correlation gave an
 R2 of 0.95 for breath ammonia and BUN
 correlation and an R2 of 0.83 for breath
 ammonia and creatinine correlation. These preliminary data
 indicate the possibility of using the real-time breath ammonia
 measurements for determining efficacy and endpoint of hemodialysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations of the tumor suppressor PTEN, a phosphatase with
 specificity for 3-phosphorylated inositol phospholipids, accompany
 progression of brain tumors from benign to the most malignant forms.
 Tumor progression, particularly in aggressive and malignant tumors, is
 associated with the induction of angiogenesis, a process termed the
 angiogenic switch. Therefore, we tested whether PTEN regulates tumor
 progression by modulating angiogenesis. U87MG glioma cells stably
 reconstituted with PTEN cDNA were tested for growth in a nude mouse
 orthotopic brain tumor model. We observed that the reconstitution of
 wild-type PTEN had no effect on in vitro proliferation
 but dramatically decreased tumor growth in vivo and
 prolonged survival in mice implanted intracranially with these tumor
 cells. PTEN reconstitution diminished phosphorylation of AKT within the
 PTEN-reconstituted tumor, induced thrombospondin 1 expression, and
 suppressed angiogenic activity. These effects were not observed in
 tumors reconstituted with a lipid phosphatase inactive G129E mutant of
 PTEN, a result that provides evidence that the lipid phosphatase
 activity of PTEN regulates the angiogenic response in
 vivo. These data provide evidence that PTEN regulates
 tumor-induced angiogenesis and the progression of gliomas to a
 malignant phenotype via the regulation of phosphoinositide-dependent
 signals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The large size of many novel therapeutics impairs their transport
 through the tumor extracellular matrix and thus limits their
 therapeutic effectiveness. We propose that extracellular matrix
 composition, structure, and distribution determine the transport
 properties in tumors. Furthermore, because the characteristics of the
 extracellular matrix largely depend on the tumor–host interactions, we
 postulate that diffusion of macromolecules will vary with tumor type as
 well as anatomical location. Diffusion coefficients of macromolecules
 and liposomes in tumors growing in cranial windows (CWs) and dorsal
 chambers (DCs) were measured by fluorescence recovery after
 photobleaching. For the same tumor types, diffusion of large molecules
 was significantly faster in CW than in DC tumors. The greater
 diffusional hindrance in DC tumors was correlated with higher levels of
 collagen type I and its organization into fibrils. For molecules with
 diameters comparable to the interfibrillar space the diffusion was 5-
 to 10-fold slower in DC than in CW tumors. The slower diffusion in DC
 tumors was associated with a higher density of host stromal cells that
 synthesize and organize collagen type I. Our results point to the
 necessity of developing site-specific drug carriers to improve the
 delivery of molecular medicine to solid tumors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Schizophrenia is a serious brain disease of uncertain etiology. A
 role for retroviruses in the etiopathogenesis of some cases of
 schizophrenia has been postulated on the basis of clinical and
 epidemiological observations. We found sequences homologous to
 retroviral pol genes in the cell-free cerebrospinal
 fluids (CSFs) of 10 of 35 (29%) individuals with recent-onset
 schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Retroviral sequences also
 were identified in the CSFs of 1 of 20 individuals with chronic
 schizophrenia. However, retroviral sequences were not identified in any
 of the CSFs obtained from 22 individuals with noninflammatory
 neurological diseases or from 30 individuals without evidence of
 neurological or psychiatric diseases (χ2 = 19.25,
 P < 0.001). The nucleotide sequences identified in
 the CSFs of the individuals with schizophrenia or schizoaffective
 disorder were related to those of the human endogenous
 retroviral (HERV)-W family of endogenous retroviruses and
 to other retroviruses in the murine leukemia virus genus. Transcription
 of RNA homologous to members of the HERV-W family of retroviruses also
 was found to be up-regulated differentially in the frontal cortex
 regions of brains obtained postmortem from individuals with
 schizophrenia, as compared with corresponding tissue from individuals
 without psychiatric diseases. The transcriptional activation of certain
 retroviral elements within the central nervous system may be associated
 with the development of schizophrenia in at least some individuals. The
 further characterization of retroviral elements within the central
 nervous system of individuals with schizophrenia might lead to improved
 methods for the diagnosis and management of this disorder.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) by
 the insulin receptor permits this docking protein to interact with
 signaling proteins that promote insulin action. Serine phosphorylation
 uncouples IRS-1 from the insulin receptor, thereby inhibiting its
 tyrosine phosphorylation and insulin signaling. For this reason, there
 is great interest in identifying serine/threonine kinases for which
 IRS-1 is a substrate. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibited
 insulin-promoted tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1 and activated the
 Akt/protein kinase B serine-threonine kinase, a downstream target for
 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase). The effect of TNF on
 insulin-promoted tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1 was blocked by
 inhibition of PI 3-kinase and the PTEN tumor suppessor, which
 dephosphorylates the lipids that mediate PI 3-kinase functions, whereas
 constitutively active Akt impaired insulin-promoted IRS-1 tyrosine
 phosphorylation. Conversely, TNF inhibition of IRS-1 tyrosine
 phosphorylation was blocked by kinase dead Akt. Inhibition of IRS-1
 tyrosine phosphorylation by TNF was blocked by rapamycin, an inhibitor
 of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a downstream target of
 Akt. mTOR induced the serine phosphorylation of IRS-1 (Ser-636/639),
 and such phosphorylation was inhibited by rapamycin. These results
 suggest that TNF impairs insulin signaling through IRS-1 by activation
 of a PI 3-kinase/Akt/mTOR pathway, which is antagonized by PTEN.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein
 and p300 are two highly conserved transcriptional coactivators and
 histone acetyltransferases that integrate signals from diverse signal
 transduction pathways in the nucleus and also link chromatin remodeling
 with transcription. In this report, we have examined the role of p300
 in the control of the G1 phase of the cell cycle in
 nontransformed immortalized human breast epithelial cells (MCF10A) and
 fibroblasts (MSU) by using adenovirus vectors expressing p300-specific
 antisense sequences. Quiescent MCF10A and MSU cells expressing
 p300-specific antisense sequences synthesized p300 at much reduced
 levels and exited G1 phase without serum stimulation. These
 cells also showed an increase in cyclin A and cyclin A- and
 E-associated kinase activities characteristic of S phase induction.
 Further analysis of the p300-depleted quiescent MCF10A cells revealed a
 5-fold induction of c-MYC and a 2-fold induction of
 c-JUN. A direct target of c-MYC, CAD,
 which is required for DNA synthesis, was also found to be up-regulated,
 indicating that up-regulation of c-MYC functionally
 contributed to DNA synthesis. Furthermore, S phase induction in
 p300-depleted cells was reversed when antisense c-MYC
 was expressed in these cells, indicating that up-regulation of c-MYC
 may directly contribute to S phase induction. Adenovirus E1A also
 induced DNA synthesis and increased the levels of c-MYC
 and c-JUN in serum-starved MCF10A cells in a
 p300-dependent manner. Our results suggest an important role of p300 in
 cell cycle regulation at G1 and raise the possibility that
 p300 may negatively regulate early response genes, including
 c-MYC and c-JUN, thereby preventing DNA
 synthesis in quiescent cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ciliary Neurotrophic Factor (CNTF) was first characterized as
 a trophic factor for motor neurons in the ciliary ganglion and spinal
 cord, leading to its evaluation in humans suffering from motor neuron
 disease. In these trials, CNTF caused unexpected and substantial weight
 loss, raising concerns that it might produce cachectic-like effects.
 Countering this possibility was the suggestion that CNTF was working
 via a leptin-like mechanism to cause weight loss, based on the findings
 that CNTF acts via receptors that are not only related to leptin
 receptors, but also similarly distributed within hypothalamic nuclei
 involved in feeding. However, although CNTF mimics the ability of
 leptin to cause fat loss in mice that are obese because of genetic
 deficiency of leptin (ob/ob mice), CNTF is also effective in
 diet-induced obesity models that are more representative of human
 obesity, and which are resistant to leptin. This discordance again
 raised the possibility that CNTF might be acting via nonleptin
 pathways, perhaps more analogous to those activated by cachectic
 cytokines. Arguing strongly against this possibility, we now show that
 CNTF can activate hypothalamic leptin-like pathways in diet-induced
 obesity models unresponsive to leptin, that CNTF improves prediabetic
 parameters in these models, and that CNTF acts very differently than
 the prototypical cachectic cytokine, IL-1. Further analyses of
 hypothalamic signaling reveals that CNTF can suppress food intake
 without triggering hunger signals or associated stress responses that
 are otherwise associated with food deprivation; thus, unlike forced
 dieting, cessation of CNTF treatment does not result in binge
 overeating and immediate rebound weight gain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The 1,852,442-bp sequence of an M1 strain of Streptococcus
 pyogenes, a Gram-positive pathogen, has been determined and
 contains 1,752 predicted protein-encoding genes. Approximately
 one-third of these genes have no identifiable function, with the
 remainder falling into previously characterized categories of known
 microbial function. Consistent with the observation that S.
 pyogenes is responsible for a wider variety of human disease
 than any other bacterial species, more than 40 putative
 virulence-associated genes have been identified. Additional genes have
 been identified that encode proteins likely associated with microbial
 “molecular mimicry” of host characteristics and involved in
 rheumatic fever or acute glomerulonephritis. The complete or partial
 sequence of four different bacteriophage genomes is also present, with
 each containing genes for one or more previously undiscovered
 superantigen-like proteins. These prophage-associated genes encode at
 least six potential virulence factors, emphasizing the importance of
 bacteriophages in horizontal gene transfer and a possible mechanism for
 generating new strains with increased pathogenic potential.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The yeast Candida albicans has a distinguishing
 feature, dimorphism, which is the ability to switch between two
 morphological forms: a budding yeast form and a multicellular invasive
 filamentous form. This ability has been postulated to contribute to the
 virulence of this organism. Studies on the morphological transition
 from a filamentous to a budding yeast form in C.
 albicans have shown that this organism excretes an
 autoregulatory substance into the culture medium. This substance was
 extracted and purified by normal-phase and reversed-phase HPLC. The
 autoregulatory substance was structurally identified as
 3,7,11-trimethyl-2,6,10-dodecatrienoate (farnesoic acid) by NMR and
 mass spectrometry. Growth experiments suggest that this substance does
 not inhibit yeast cell growth but inhibits filamentous growth. These
 findings have implications for developmental signaling by the fungus
 and might have medicinal value in the development of antifungal
 therapies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A number of pathogenic, Gram-negative bacteria are able to secrete
 specific proteins across three membranes: the inner and outer bacterial
 membrane and the eukaryotic plasma membrane. In the pathogen
 Yersinia enterocolitica, the primary structure of the
 secreted proteins as well as of the components of the secretion
 machinery, both plasmid-encoded, is known. However, the mechanism of
 protein translocation is largely unknown. Here we show that Y.
 enterocolitica polymerizes a 6-kDa protein of the secretion
 machinery into needles that are able to puncture the eukaryotic plasma
 membrane. These needles form a conduit for the transport of specific
 proteins from the bacterial to the eukaryotic cytoplasm, where they
 exert their cytotoxic activity. In negatively stained electron
 micrographs, the isolated needles were 60–80 nm long and 6–7 nm wide
 and contained a hollow center of about 2 nm. Our data indicate that it
 is the polymerization of the 6-kDa protein into these needles that
 provides the force to perforate the eukaryotic plasma membrane.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epstein–Barr virus encodes integral membrane proteins LMP1 and
 LMP2A in transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines. We now find that LMP1
 associates with the cell cytoskeleton through a tumor necrosis factor
 receptor-associated factor-interacting domain, most likely mediated by
 tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 3. LMP1 is
 palmitoylated, and the transmembrane domains associate with lipid
 rafts. Mutation of LMP1 cysteine-78 abrogates palmitoylation but does
 not affect raft association or NF-κB or c-Jun N-terminal kinase
 activation. LMP2A also associates with rafts and is palmitoylated but
 does not associate with the cell cytoskeleton. The associations of LMP1
 and LMP2A with rafts and of LMP1 with the cell cytoskeleton are likely
 to effect interactions with cell proteins involved in shape, motility,
 signal transduction, growth, and survival.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A global approach was used to analyze protein synthesis and
 stability during the cell cycle of the bacterium Caulobacter
 crescentus. Approximately one-fourth (979) of the estimated
 C. crescentus gene products were detected by
 two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, 144 of which showed differential
 cell cycle expression patterns. Eighty-one of these proteins were
 identified by mass spectrometry and were assigned to a wide variety of
 functional groups. Pattern analysis revealed that coexpression groups
 were functionally clustered. A total of 48 proteins were rapidly
 degraded in the course of one cell cycle. More than half of these
 unstable proteins were also found to be synthesized in a cell
 cycle-dependent manner, establishing a strong correlation between rapid
 protein turnover and the periodicity of the bacterial cell cycle. This
 is, to our knowledge, the first evidence for a global role of
 proteolysis in bacterial cell cycle control.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) has been suggested to underlie
 migraine visual aura. However, it has been challenging to test this
 hypothesis in human cerebral cortex. Using high-field functional MRI
 with near-continuous recording during visual aura in three subjects, we
 observed blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal changes that
 demonstrated at least eight characteristics of CSD, time-locked to
 percept/onset of the aura. Initially, a focal increase in BOLD signal
 (possibly reflecting vasodilation), developed within extrastriate
 cortex (area V3A). This BOLD change progressed contiguously and slowly
 (3.5 ± 1.1 mm/min) over occipital cortex, congruent with the
 retinotopy of the visual percept. Following the same retinotopic
 progression, the BOLD signal then diminished (possibly reflecting
 vasoconstriction after the initial vasodilation), as did the BOLD
 response to visual activation. During periods with no visual
 stimulation, but while the subject was experiencing scintillations,
 BOLD signal followed the retinotopic progression of the visual percept.
 These data strongly suggest that an electrophysiological event such as
 CSD generates the aura in human visual cortex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phosducin (Pd), a small protein found abundantly in photoreceptors,
 is widely assumed to regulate light sensitivity in the rod outer
 segment through interaction with the heterotrimeric G protein
 transducin. But, based on histochemistry and Western blot analysis, Pd
 is found almost entirely in the inner segment in both light and dark,
 most abundantly near the rod synapse. We report a second small protein,
 14-3-3, in the rod with a similar distribution. By immunoprecipitation,
 phospho-Pd is found to interact with 14-3-3 in material from
 dark-adapted retina, and this interaction is markedly diminished by
 light, which dephosphorylates Pd. Conversely, unphosphorylated Pd binds
 to inner segment G protein(s) in the light. From these results and
 reported functions of 14-3-3, we have constructed a hypothesis for the
 regulation of light sensitivity at the level of rod synapse. By
 dissociating the Pd/14-3-3 complex, light enables both proteins to
 function in this role.
DOC DONE!Abstract
N-type and P/Q-type Ca2+ channels are inhibited by
 neurotransmitters acting through G protein-coupled receptors in a
 membrane-delimited pathway involving Gβγ subunits. Inhibition is
 caused by a shift from an easily activated “willing”
 (W) state to a more-difficult-to-activate
 “reluctant” (R) state. This inhibition can be
 reversed by strong depolarization, resulting in prepulse facilitation,
 or by protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation. Comparison of regulation
 of N-type Ca2+ channels containing Cav2.2a α1
 subunits and P/Q-type Ca2+ channels containing
 Cav2.1 α1 subunits revealed substantial
 differences. In the absence of G protein modulation, Cav2.1
 channels containing Cavβ subunits were tonically in the
 W state, whereas Cav2.1 channels without β
 subunits and Cav2.2a channels with β subunits were
 tonically in the R state. Both Cav2.1 and
 Cav2.2a channels could be shifted back toward the
 W state by strong depolarization or PKC phosphorylation.
 Our results show that the R state and its modulation by
 prepulse facilitation, PKC phosphorylation, and Cavβ
 subunits are intrinsic properties of the Ca2+ channel
 itself in the absence of G protein modulation. A common allosteric
 model of G protein modulation of Ca2+-channel activity
 incorporating an intrinsic equilibrium between the W and
 R states of the α1 subunits and modulation
 of that equilibrium by G proteins, Cavβ subunits,
 membrane depolarization, and phosphorylation by PKC accommodates our
 findings. Such regulation will modulate transmission at synapses that
 use N-type and P/Q-type Ca2+ channels to initiate
 neurotransmitter release.
DOC DONE!Abstract
N-type Ca2+ channels can be inhibited by
 neurotransmitter-induced release of G protein βγ subunits. Two
 isoforms of Cav2.2 α1 subunits of N-type calcium channels
 from rat brain (Cav2.2a and Cav2.2b; initially
 termed rbB-I and rbB-II) have different functional properties.
 Unmodulated Cav2.2b channels are in an easily activated
 “willing” (W) state with fast activation kinetics
 and no prepulse facilitation. Activating G proteins shifts
 Cav2.2b channels to a difficult to activate
 “reluctant” (R) state with slow activation
 kinetics; they can be returned to the W state by strong
 depolarization resulting in prepulse facilitation. This contrasts with
 Cav2.2a channels, which are tonically in the
 R state and exhibit strong prepulse facilitation.
 Activating or inhibiting G proteins has no effect. Thus, the
 R state of Cav2.2a and its reversal by
 prepulse facilitation are intrinsic to the channel and independent of G
 protein modulation. Mutating G177 in segment IS3 of Cav2.2b
 to E as in Cav2.2a converts Cav2.2b tonically
 to the R state, insensitive to further G protein
 modulation. The converse substitution in Cav2.2a, E177G,
 converts it to the W state and restores G protein
 modulation. We propose that negatively charged E177 in IS3 interacts
 with a positive charge in the IS4 voltage sensor when the channel is
 closed and produces the R state of Cav2.2a
 by a voltage sensor-trapping mechanism. G protein βγ subunits may
 produce reluctant channels by a similar molecular mechanism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Because neurogenesis persists in the adult mammalian brain and can
 be regulated by physiological and pathological events, we investigated
 its possible involvement in the brain's response to focal cerebral
 ischemia. Ischemia was induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral
 artery in the rat for 90 min, and proliferating cells were labeled with
 5-bromo-2′-deoxyuridine-5′-monophosphate (BrdUrd) over 2-day periods
 before sacrificing animals 1, 2 or 3 weeks after ischemia. Ischemia
 increased the incorporation of BrdUrd into cells in two
 neuroproliferative regions—the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus
 and the rostral subventricular zone. Both effects were bilateral, but
 that in the subgranular zone was more prominent on the ischemic side.
 Cells labeled with BrdUrd coexpressed the immature neuronal markers
 doublecortin and proliferating cell nuclear antigen but did not express
 the more mature cell markers NeuN and Hu, suggesting that they were
 nascent neurons. These results support a role for ischemia-induced
 neurogenesis in what may be adaptive processes that contribute to
 recovery after stroke.
DOC DONE!Abstract
11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD-1)
 intracellularly regenerates active corticosterone from circulating
 inert 11-dehydrocorticosterone (11-DHC) in specific tissues. The
 hippocampus is a brain structure particularly vulnerable to
 glucocorticoid neurotoxicity with aging. In intact hippocampal cells in
 culture, 11β-HSD-1 acts as a functional 11β-reductase reactivating
 inert 11-DHC to corticosterone, thereby potentiating kainate
 neurotoxicity. We examined the functional significance of 11β-HSD-1
 in the central nervous system by using knockout mice. Aged wild-type
 mice developed elevated plasma corticosterone levels that correlated
 with learning deficits in the watermaze. In contrast, despite elevated
 plasma corticosterone levels throughout life, this
 glucocorticoid-associated learning deficit was ameliorated in aged
 11β-HSD-1 knockout mice, implicating lower intraneuronal
 corticosterone levels through lack of 11-DHC reactivation. Indeed, aged
 knockout mice showed significantly lower hippocampal tissue
 corticosterone levels than wild-type controls. These findings
 demonstrate that tissue corticosterone levels do not merely reflect
 plasma levels and appear to play a more important role in hippocampal
 functions than circulating blood levels. The data emphasize the crucial
 importance of local enzymes in determining intracellular glucocorticoid
 activity. Selective 11β-HSD-1 inhibitors may protect against
 hippocampal function decline with age.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The floor plate plays a key role in patterning axonal trajectory in
 the embryonic spinal cord by providing both long-range and local
 guidance cues that promote or inhibit axonal growth toward and across
 the ventral midline of the spinal cord, thus acting as an intermediate
 target for a number of crossing (commissural) and noncrossing (motor)
 axons. F-spondin, a secreted adhesion molecule expressed in the
 embryonic floor plate and the caudal somite of birds, plays a dual role
 in patterning the nervous system. It promotes adhesion and outgrowth of
 commissural axons and inhibits adhesion of neural crest cells. In the
 current study, we demonstrate that outgrowth of embryonic motor axons
 also is inhibited by F-spondin protein in a contact-repulsion fashion.
 Three independent lines of evidence support our hypothesis:
 substrate-attached F-spondin inhibits outgrowth of dissociated motor
 neurons in an outgrowth assay; F-spondin elicits acute growth cone
 collapse when applied to cultured motor neurons; and challenging
 ventral spinal cord explants with aggregates of HEK 293 cells
 expressing F-spondin, causes contact-repulsion of motor neurites.
 Structural–functional studies demonstrate that the processed
 carboxyl-half protein that contains the thrombospondin type 1
 repeats is more prominent in inhibiting outgrowth, suggesting that the
 processing of F-spondin is important for enhancing its inhibitory
 activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nicotine influences cognition and behavior, but the
 mechanisms by which these effects occur are unclear. By using positron
 emission tomography, we measured cognitive activation (increases in
 relative regional cerebral blood flow) during a working memory task
 [2-back task (2BT)] in 11 abstinent smokers and 11 ex-smokers. Assays
 were performed both after administration of placebo gum and 4-mg
 nicotine gum. Performance on the 2BT did not differ between groups in
 either condition, and the pattern of brain activation by the 2BT was
 consistent with reports in the literature. However, in the placebo
 condition, activation in ex-smokers predominated in the left
 hemisphere, whereas in smokers, it occurred in the right hemisphere.
 When nicotine was administered, activation was reduced in smokers but
 enhanced in ex-smokers. The lateralization of activation as a function
 of nicotine dependence suggests that chronic exposure to nicotine or
 withdrawal from nicotine affects cognitive strategies used to perform
 the memory task. Furthermore, the lack of enhancement of activation
 after nicotine administration in smokers likely reflects tolerance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alzheimer's disease produces a devastating decline in mental
 function, with profound effects on learning and memory. Early
 consequences of the disease include the specific loss of cholinergic
 neurons in brain, diminished cholinergic signaling, and the
 accumulation of β-amyloid peptide in neuritic plaques. Of the
 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at risk, the most critical may be
 those containing the α7 gene product (α7-nAChRs), because they are
 widespread, have a high relative permeability to calcium, and regulate
 numerous cellular events in the nervous system. With the use of
 whole-cell patch–clamp recording we show here that nanomolar
 concentrations of β-amyloid peptides specifically and reversibly
 block α7-nAChRs on rat hippocampal neurons in culture. The block is
 noncompetitive, voltage-independent, and use-independent and is
 mediated through the N-terminal extracellular domain of the receptor.
 It does not appear to require either calcium influx or G protein
 activation. β-Amyloid blockade is likely to be a common feature of
 α7-nAChRs because it applies to the receptors at both
 somato-dendritic and presynaptic locations on rat hippocampal neurons
 and extends to homologous receptors on chick ciliary ganglion neurons
 as well. Because α7-nAChRs in the central nervous system are thought
 to have numerous functions and recently have been implicated in
 learning and memory, impaired receptor function in this case may
 contribute to cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Arachidonoyldiacylglycerol (20:4-DAG) is a
 second messenger derived from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and
 generated by stimulation of glutamate metabotropic receptors linked to
 G proteins and activation of phospholipase C. 20:4-DAG signaling is
 terminated by its phosphorylation to phosphatidic acid, catalyzed by
 diacylglycerol kinase (DGK). We have cloned the murine
 DGKɛ gene that showed, when expressed in COS-7 cells, selectivity for
 20:4-DAG. The significance of DGKɛ in synaptic function was
 investigated in mice with targeted disruption of the DGKɛ.
 DGKɛ−/− mice showed a higher resistance to
 eletroconvulsive shock with shorter tonic seizures and faster recovery
 than DGKɛ+/+ mice. The phosphatidylinositol
 4,5-bisphosphate-signaling pathway in cerebral cortex was greatly
 affected, leading to lower accumulation of 20:4-DAG and free 20:4.
 Also, long-term potentiation was attenuated in perforant path–dentate
 granular cell synapses. We propose that DGKɛ contributes to modulate
 neuronal signaling pathways linked to synaptic activity, neuronal
 plasticity, and epileptogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuropathological and brain imaging studies suggest that
 schizophrenia may result from neurodevelopmental defects.
 Cytoarchitectural studies indicate cellular abnormalities suggestive of
 a disruption in neuronal connectivity in schizophrenia, particularly in
 the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Yet, the molecular mechanisms
 underlying these findings remain unclear. To identify molecular
 substrates associated with schizophrenia, DNA microarray analysis was
 used to assay gene expression levels in postmortem dorsolateral
 prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic and control patients. Genes
 determined to have altered expression levels in schizophrenics relative
 to controls are involved in a number of biological processes, including
 synaptic plasticity, neuronal development, neurotransmission, and
 signal transduction. Most notable was the differential expression of
 myelination-related genes suggesting a disruption in oligodendrocyte
 function in schizophrenia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In adult rodents, neural progenitor cells in the subependymal (SZ)
 zone of the lateral cerebral ventricle generate neuroblasts that
 migrate in chains via the rostral migratory stream (RMS) into the
 olfactory bulb (OB), where they differentiate into interneurons.
 However, the existence of this neurogenic migratory system in other
 mammals has remained unknown. Here, we report the presence of a
 homologue of the rodent SZ/RMS in the adult macaque monkey, a
 nonhuman Old World primate with a relatively smaller OB. Our
 results—obtained by using combined immunohistochemical detection of a
 marker for DNA replication (5-bromodeoxyuridine) and several cell
 type-specific markers—indicate that dividing cells in the adult monkey
 SZ generate neuroblasts that undergo restricted chain migration over an
 extended distance of more than 2 cm to the OB and differentiate into
 granule interneurons. These findings in a nonhuman primate extend and
 support the use of the SZ/RMS as a model system for studying neural
 regenerative mechanisms in the human brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although neurogenesis in the embryo proceeds in a region- or
 lineage-specific fashion coincident with neuropeptide expression, a
 regulatory role for G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) remains
 undefined. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP)
 stimulates sympathetic neuroblast proliferation, whereas the peptide
 inhibits embryonic cortical precursor mitosis. Here, by using ectopic
 expression strategies, we show that the opposing mitogenic effects of
 PACAP are determined by expression of PACAP receptor splice isoforms
 and differential coupling to the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway, as
 opposed to differences in cellular context. In embryonic day 14 (E14)
 cortical precursors transfected with the hop receptor variant, but not
 cells transfected with the short variant, PACAP activates the PLC
 pathway, increasing intracellular calcium and eliciting translocation
 of protein kinase C. Ectopic expression of the hop variant in cortical
 neuroblasts transforms the antimitotic effect of PACAP into a
 promitogenic signal. Furthermore, PACAP promitogenic effects required
 PLC pathway function indicated by antagonist U-73122 studies in
 hop-transfected cortical cells and native sympathetic neuroblasts.
 These observations highlight the critical role of lineage-specific
 expression of GPCR variants in determining mitogenic signaling in
 neural precursors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This investigation was pursued to test the use of intracellular
 antibodies (intrabodies) as a means of blocking the pathogenesis of
 Huntington's disease (HD). HD is characterized by abnormally elongated
 polyglutamine near the N terminus of the huntingtin protein, which
 induces pathological protein–protein interactions and aggregate
 formation by huntingtin or its exon 1-containing fragments. Selection
 from a large human phage display library yielded a single-chain Fv
 (sFv) antibody specific for the 17 N-terminal residues of huntingtin,
 adjacent to the polyglutamine in HD exon 1. This anti-huntingtin sFv
 intrabody was tested in a cellular model of the disease in which
 huntingtin exon 1 had been fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP).
 Expression of expanded repeat HD-polyQ-GFP in transfected cells shows
 perinuclear aggregation similar to human HD pathology, which worsens
 with increasing polyglutamine length; the number of aggregates in these
 transfected cells provided a quantifiable model of HD for this study.
 Coexpression of anti-huntingtin sFv intrabodies with the abnormal
 huntingtin-GFP fusion protein dramatically reduced the number of
 aggregates, compared with controls lacking the intrabody.
 Anti-huntingtin sFv fused with a nuclear localization signal retargeted
 huntingtin analogues to cell nuclei, providing further evidence of the
 anti-huntingtin sFv specificity and of its capacity to redirect the
 subcellular localization of exon 1. This study suggests that
 intrabody-mediated modulation of abnormal neuronal proteins may
 contribute to the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as HD,
 Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, prion disease, and the spinocerebellar
 ataxias.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Allostatic load (AL) has been proposed as a new conceptualization
 of cumulative biological burden exacted on the body through attempts to
 adapt to life's demands. Using a multisystem summary measure of AL, we
 evaluated its capacity to predict four categories of health outcomes, 7
 years after a baseline survey of 1,189 men and women age 70–79. Higher
 baseline AL scores were associated with significantly increased risk
 for 7-year mortality as well as declines in cognitive and physical
 functioning and were marginally associated with incident cardiovascular
 disease events, independent of standard socio-demographic
 characteristics and baseline health status. The summary AL measure was
 based on 10 parameters of biological functioning, four of which are
 primary mediators in the cascade from perceived challenges to
 downstream health outcomes. Six of the components are secondary
 mediators reflecting primarily components of the metabolic syndrome
 (syndrome X). AL was a better predictor of mortality and decline in
 physical functioning than either the syndrome X or primary mediator
 components alone. The findings support the concept of AL as a measure
 of cumulative biological burden.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutational and biophysical analysis suggests that an intracellular
 COOH-terminal domain of the large conductance
 Ca2+-activated K+ channel (BK channel) contains
 Ca2+-binding site(s) that are allosterically coupled to
 channel opening. However the structural basis of Ca2+
 binding to BK channels is unknown. To pursue this question, we
 overexpressed the COOH-terminal 280 residues of the Drosophila
 slowpoke BK channel (Dslo-C280) as a FLAG- and
 His6-tagged protein in Escherichia coli. We
 purified Dslo-C280 in soluble form and used a
 45Ca2+-overlay protein blot assay to detect
 Ca2+ binding. Dslo-C280 exhibits specific binding of
 45Ca2+ in comparison with various control
 proteins and known EF-hand Ca2+-binding proteins. A
 mutation (D5N5) of Dslo-C280, in which five consecutive Asp residues of
 the “Ca-bowl” motif are changed to Asn, reduces
 45Ca2+-binding activity by 56%. By
 electrophysiological assay, the corresponding D5N5 mutant of the
 Drosophila BK channel expressed in HEK293 cells exhibits
 lower Ca2+ sensitivity for activation and a shift of ≈+80
 mV in the midpoint voltage for activation. This effect is associated
 with a decrease in the Hill coefficient (N) for activation by
 Ca2+ and a reduction in apparent Ca2+ affinity,
 suggesting the loss of one Ca2+-binding site per monomer.
 These results demonstrate a functional correlation between
 Ca2+ binding to a specific region of the BK protein and
 Ca2+-dependent activation, thus providing a biochemical
 approach to study this process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Seed dormancy is a trait of considerable adaptive significance
 because it maximizes seedling survival by preventing premature
 germination under unfavorable conditions. Understanding how seeds break
 dormancy and initiate growth is also of great agricultural and
 biotechnological interest. Abscisic acid (ABA) plays primary regulatory
 roles in the initiation and maintenance of seed dormancy. Here we
 report that the basic leucine zipper transcription factor ABI5 confers
 an enhanced response to exogenous ABA during germination, and seedling
 establishment, as well as subsequent vegetative growth. These responses
 correlate with total ABI5 levels. We show that ABI5 expression defines
 a narrow developmental window following germination, during which
 plants monitor the environmental osmotic status before initiating
 vegetative growth. ABI5 is necessary to maintain germinated embryos in
 a quiescent state thereby protecting plants from drought. As expected
 for a key player in ABA-triggered processes, ABI5 protein accumulation,
 phosphorylation, stability, and activity are highly regulated by ABA
 during germination and early seedling growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Methyl jasmonate is a plant volatile that acts as an important
 cellular regulator mediating diverse developmental processes and
 defense responses. We have cloned the novel gene JMT
 encoding an S-adenosyl-l-methionine:jasmonic
 acid carboxyl methyltransferase (JMT) from Arabidopsis
 thaliana. Recombinant JMT protein expressed in
 Escherichia coli catalyzed the formation of methyl
 jasmonate from jasmonic acid with Km value
 of 38.5 μM. JMT RNA was not detected in young
 seedlings but was detected in rosettes, cauline leaves, and developing
 flowers. In addition, expression of the gene was induced both locally
 and systemically by wounding or methyl jasmonate treatment. This result
 suggests that JMT can perceive and respond to local and
 systemic signals generated by external stimuli, and that the signals
 may include methyl jasmonate itself. Transgenic
 Arabidopsis overexpressing JMT had a
 3-fold elevated level of endogenous methyl jasmonate
 without altering jasmonic acid content. The transgenic plants exhibited
 constitutive expression of jasmonate-responsive genes, including
 VSP and PDF1.2. Furthermore, the
 transgenic plants showed enhanced level of resistance against the
 virulent fungus Botrytis cinerea. Thus, our data suggest
 that the jasmonic acid carboxyl methyltransferase is a key enzyme for
 jasmonate-regulated plant responses. Activation of JMT
 expression leads to production of methyl jasmonate that could act as an
 intracellular regulator, a diffusible intercellular signal transducer,
 and an airborne signal mediating intra- and interplant communications.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Thioredoxins are 12-kDa proteins functional in the regulation
 of cellular processes throughout the animal, plant, and microbial
 kingdoms. Growing evidence with seeds suggests that an
 h-type of thioredoxin, reduced by NADPH via
 NADP-thioredoxin reductase, reduces disulfide bonds of target proteins
 and thereby acts as a wakeup call in germination. A better
 understanding of the role of thioredoxin in seeds as well as other
 systems could be achieved if more were known about the target proteins.
 To this end, we have devised a strategy for the comprehensive
 identification of proteins targeted by thioredoxin. Tissue extracts
 incubated with reduced thioredoxin are treated with a fluorescent probe
 (monobromobimane) to label sulfhydryl groups. The newly labeled
 proteins are isolated by conventional two-dimensional electrophoresis:
 (i) nonreducing/reducing or (ii)
 isoelectric focusing/reducing SDS/PAGE. The isolated proteins are
 identified by amino acid sequencing. Each electrophoresis system offers
 an advantage: the first method reveals the specificity of thioredoxin
 in the reduction of intramolecular vs. intermolecular disulfide bonds,
 whereas the second method improves the separation of the labeled
 proteins. By application of both methods to peanut seed extracts, we
 isolated at least 20 thioredoxin targets and identified 5—three
 allergens (Ara h2, Ara h3, and Ara h6) and two proteins not known to
 occur in peanut (desiccation-related and seed maturation protein).
 These findings open the door to the identification of proteins targeted
 by thioredoxin in a wide range of systems, thereby enhancing our
 understanding of its function and extending its technological and
 medical applications.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The influence of temporal association on the representation and
 recognition of objects was investigated. Observers were shown sequences
 of novel faces in which the identity of the face changed as the head
 rotated. As a result, observers showed a tendency to treat the views as
 if they were of the same person. Additional experiments revealed that
 this was only true if the training sequences depicted head rotations
 rather than jumbled views; in other words, the sequence had to be
 spatially as well as temporally smooth. Results suggest that we are
 continuously associating views of objects to support later recognition,
 and that we do so not only on the basis of the physical similarity, but
 also the correlated appearance in time of the objects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To investigate the types of memory traces recovered by the medial
 temporal lobe (MTL), neural activity during veridical and illusory
 recognition was measured with the use of functional MRI (fMRI). Twelve
 healthy young adults watched a videotape segment in which two speakers
 alternatively presented lists of associated words, and then the
 subjects performed a recognition test including words presented in the
 study lists (True items), new words closely related to studied words
 (False items), and new unrelated words (New items). The main finding
 was a dissociation between two MTL regions: whereas the hippocampus was
 similarly activated for True and False items, suggesting the recovery
 of semantic information, the parahippocampal gyrus was more activated
 for True than for False items, suggesting the recovery of perceptual
 information. The study also yielded a dissociation between two
 prefrontal cortex (PFC) regions: whereas bilateral dorsolateral PFC was
 more activated for True and False items than for New items, possibly
 reflecting monitoring of retrieved information, left ventrolateral PFC
 was more activated for New than for True and False items, possibly
 reflecting semantic processing. Precuneus and lateral parietal regions
 were more activated for True and False than for New items.
 Orbitofrontal cortex and cerebellar regions were more activated for
 False than for True items. In conclusion, the results suggest that
 activity in anterior MTL regions does not distinguish True from False,
 whereas activity in posterior MTL regions does.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Electronic systems that use rugged lightweight plastics
 potentially offer attractive characteristics (low-cost processing,
 mechanical flexibility, large area coverage, etc.) that are not easily
 achieved with established silicon technologies. This paper summarizes
 work that demonstrates many of these characteristics in a realistic
 system: organic active matrix backplane circuits (256 transistors) for
 large (≈5 × 5-inch) mechanically flexible sheets of electronic
 paper, an emerging type of display. The success of this effort relies
 on new or improved processing techniques and materials for plastic
 electronics, including methods for (i) rubber stamping
 (microcontact printing) high-resolution (≈1 μm) circuits with low
 levels of defects and good registration over large areas,
 (ii) achieving low leakage with thin dielectrics
 deposited onto surfaces with relief, (iii) constructing
 high-performance organic transistors with bottom contact geometries,
 (iv) encapsulating these transistors, (v)
 depositing, in a repeatable way, organic semiconductors with uniform
 electrical characteristics over large areas, and (vi)
 low-temperature (≈100°C) annealing to increase the on/off ratios
 of the transistors and to improve the uniformity of their
 characteristics. The sophistication and flexibility of the patterning
 procedures, high level of integration on plastic substrates, large area
 coverage, and good performance of the transistors are all important
 features of this work. We successfully integrate these circuits with
 microencapsulated electrophoretic “inks” to form sheets of
 electronic paper.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multiphoton ionization of thymine and uracil clusters generated by
 a supersonic molecular beam gave rise to a remarkable alternation of
 mass spectral intensities between even- and odd-numbered clusters. Such
 alternation was observed in clusters of up to 30 molecules. Excitation
 to the two lowest electronically excited states seemed to be a strong
 prerequisite. In view of the well known photodimerization reaction of
 thymine and uracil in the bulk phase, it is proposed that such
 alternation in the mass spectral intensity resulted from formation of
 photodimer units within the cluster on intense UV irradiation. Several
 analogues of thymine with no known propensity for photodimerization in
 the bulk phase did not exhibit any sign of such alternation in the
 cluster mass spectrum. The intrinsic UV window for photodimerization,
 and hence photoinduced mammalian mutagenesis, was estimated to be
 approximately 210–280 nm, significantly narrower than the previously
 reported bulk values of 150–300 nm.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The telomerase enzyme is a potential therapeutic target in
 many human cancers. A series of potent inhibitors has been designed by
 computer modeling, which exploit the unique structural features of
 quadruplex DNA. These 3,6,9-trisubstituted acridine inhibitors are
 predicted to interact selectively with the human DNA quadruplex
 structure, as a means of specifically inhibiting the action of human
 telomerase in extending the length of single-stranded telomeric DNA.
 The anilino substituent at the 9-position of the acridine chromophore
 is predicted to lie in a third groove of the quadruplex. Calculated
 relative binding energies predict enhanced selectivity compared with
 earlier 3,6-disubstituted compounds, as a result of this substituent.
 The ranking order of energies is in accord with equilibrium binding
 constants for quadruplex measured by surface plasmon resonance
 techniques, which also show reduced duplex binding compared with the
 disubstituted compounds. The 3,6,9-trisubstututed acridines have potent
 in vitro inhibitory activity against human telomerase,
 with EC50 values of up to 60 nM.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Equity is of fundamental concern in the quest for international
 cooperation to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations by the reduction
 of emissions. By modeling the carbon cycle, we estimate the global
 CO2 emissions that would be required to stabilize the
 atmospheric concentration of CO2 at levels ranging from 450
 to 1,000 ppm. These are compared, on both an absolute and a per-capita
 basis, to scenarios for emissions from the developed and developing
 worlds generated by socio-economic models under the assumption that
 actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions are not taken. Need and
 equity have provided strong arguments for developing countries to
 request that the developed world takes the lead in controlling its
 emissions, while permitting the developing countries in the
 meantime to use primarily fossil fuels for their development. Even with
 major and early control of CO2 emissions by the developed
 world, limiting concentration to 450 ppm implies that the developing
 world also would need to control its emissions within decades, given
 that we expect developing world emissions would otherwise double over
 this time. Scenarios leading to CO2 concentrations of 550
 ppm exhibit a reduction of the developed world's per-capita emission
 by about 50% over the next 50 years. Even for the higher stabilization
 levels considered, the developing world would not be able to use fossil
 fuels for their development in the manner that the developed world has
 used them.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two and a half millennia ago Pythagoras initiated the scientific
 study of the pitch of sounds; yet our understanding of the mechanisms
 of pitch perception remains incomplete. Physical models of pitch
 perception try to explain from elementary principles why certain
 physical characteristics of the stimulus lead to particular pitch
 sensations. There are two broad categories of pitch-perception models:
 place or spectral models consider that pitch is mainly related to the
 Fourier spectrum of the stimulus, whereas for periodicity or temporal
 models its characteristics in the time domain are more important.
 Current models from either class are usually computationally intensive,
 implementing a series of steps more or less supported by auditory
 physiology. However, the brain has to analyze and react in real time to
 an enormous amount of information from the ear and other senses. How is
 all this information efficiently represented and processed in the
 nervous system? A proposal of nonlinear and complex systems research is
 that dynamical attractors may form the basis of neural information
 processing. Because the auditory system is a complex and highly
 nonlinear dynamical system, it is natural to suppose that dynamical
 attractors may carry perceptual and functional meaning. Here we show
 that this idea, scarcely developed in current pitch models, can be
 successfully applied to pitch perception.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The study of the large-sample distribution of the canonical
 correlations and variates in cointegrated models is extended from the
 first-order autoregression model to autoregression of any (finite)
 order. The cointegrated process considered here is nonstationary in
 some dimensions and stationary in some other directions, but the first
 difference (the “error-correction form”) is stationary. The
 asymptotic distribution of the canonical correlations between the first
 differences and the predictor variables as well as the corresponding
 canonical variables is obtained under the assumption that the process
 is Gaussian. The method of analysis is similar to that used for the
 first-order process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microarrays can measure the expression of
 thousands of genes to identify changes in expression between different
 biological states. Methods are needed to determine the significance of
 these changes while accounting for the enormous number of genes. We
 describe a method, Significance Analysis of Microarrays (SAM), that
 assigns a score to each gene on the basis of change in gene expression
 relative to the standard deviation of repeated measurements. For genes
 with scores greater than an adjustable threshold, SAM uses permutations
 of the repeated measurements to estimate the percentage of genes
 identified by chance, the false discovery rate (FDR). When the
 transcriptional response of human cells to ionizing radiation was
 measured by microarrays, SAM identified 34 genes that changed at least
 1.5-fold with an estimated FDR of 12%, compared with FDRs of 60 and
 84% by using conventional methods of analysis. Of the 34 genes, 19
 were involved in cell cycle regulation and 3 in apoptosis.
 Surprisingly, four nucleotide excision repair genes were induced,
 suggesting that this repair pathway for UV-damaged DNA might play a
 previously unrecognized role in repairing DNA damaged by ionizing
 radiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The study of the large-sample distribution of the canonical
 correlations and variates in cointegrated models is extended from the
 first-order autoregression model to autoregression of any (finite)
 order. The cointegrated process considered here is nonstationary in
 some dimensions and stationary in some other directions, but the first
 difference (the “error-correction form”) is stationary. The
 asymptotic distribution of the canonical correlations between the first
 differences and the predictor variables as well as the corresponding
 canonical variables is obtained under the assumption that the process
 is Gaussian. The method of analysis is similar to that used for the
 first-order process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Sangiran dome is the primary stratigraphic window for the
 Plio-Pleistocene deposits of the Solo basin of Central Jawa. The dome
 has yielded nearly 80 Homo erectus fossils, around 50 of
 which have known findspots. With a hornblende
 40Ar/39Ar plateau age of 1.66 ± 0.04
 mega-annum (Ma) reportedly associated with two fossils [Swisher, C.C.,
 III, Curtis, G. H., Jacob, T., Getty, A. G., Suprijo, A. &
 Widiasmoro (1994) Science 263, 1118–1121), the dome
 offers evidence that early Homo dispersed to East Asia
 during the earliest Pleistocene. Unfortunately, the hornblende pumice
 was sampled at Jokotingkir Hill, a central locality with complex
 lithostratigraphic deformation and dubious specimen provenance. To
 address the antiquity of Sangiran H. erectus more
 systematically, we investigate the sedimentary framework and hornblende
 40Ar/39Ar age for volcanic deposits in the
 southeast quadrant of the dome. In this sector, Bapang (Kabuh)
 sediments have their largest exposure, least deformation, and most
 complete tephrostratigraphy. At five locations, we identify a sequence
 of sedimentary cycles in which H. erectus fossils are
 associated with epiclastic pumice. From sampled pumice, eight
 hornblende separates produced 40Ar/39Ar
 plateau ages ranging from 1.51 ± 0.08 Ma at the Bapang/Sangiran
 Formation contact, to 1.02 ± 0.06 Ma, at a point above the
 hominin-bearing sequence. The chronological sequence of
 40Ar/39Ar ages follows stratigraphic order
 across the southeast quadrant. An intermediate level yielding four
 nearly complete crania has an age of about 1.25 Ma.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) point mutations in both
 the intradiscal (ID) and transmembrane domains of rhodopsin cause
 partial or complete misfolding of rhodopsin, resulting in loss of
 11-cis-retinal binding. Previous work has shown that
 misfolding is caused by the formation of a disulfide bond in the ID
 domain different from the native Cys-110–Cys-187 disulfide bond in
 native rhodopsin. Here we report on direct identification of the
 abnormal disulfide bond in misfolded RP mutants in the transmembrane
 domain by mass spectrometric analysis. This disulfide bond is between
 Cys-185 and Cys-187, the same as previously identified in misfolded RP
 mutations in the ID domain. The strategy described here should be
 generally applicable to identification of disulfide bonds in other
 integral membrane proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interaction of light-activated rhodopsin with transducin (T)
 is the first event in visual signal transduction. We use covalent
 crosslinking approaches to map the contact sites in interaction between
 the two proteins. Here we use a photoactivatable reagent,
 N-[(2-pyridyldithio)-ethyl], 4-azido salicylamide. The
 reagent is attached to the SH group of cytoplasmic monocysteine
 rhodopsin mutants by a disulfide-exchange reaction with the pyridylthio
 group, and the derivatized rhodopsin then is complexed with T by
 illumination at λ >495 nm. Subsequent irradiation of the complex at
 λ310 nm generates covalent crosslinks between the two proteins.
 Crosslinking was demonstrated between T and a number of single cysteine
 rhodopsin mutants. However, sites of crosslinks were investigated in
 detail only between T and the rhodopsin mutant S240C (cytoplasmic loop
 V-VI). Crosslinking occurred predominantly with Tα. For
 identification of the sites of crosslinks in Tα, the
 strategy used involved: (i) derivatization of all of the
 free cysteines in the crosslinked proteins with
 N-ethylmaleimide; (ii) reduction of the
 disulfide bond linking the two proteins and isolation of all of the
 Tα species carrying the crosslinked moiety with a free SH
 group; (iii) adduct formation of the latter with the
 N-maleimide moiety of the reagent,
 maleimido-butyryl-biocytin, containing a biotinyl group;
 (iv) trypsin degradation of the resulting
 Tα derivatives and isolation of Tα peptides
 carrying maleimido-butyryl-biocytin by avidin-agarose chromatography;
 and (v) identification of the isolated peptides by
 matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass
 spectrometry. We found that crosslinking occurred mainly to two
 C-terminal peptides in Tα containing the amino acid
 sequences 310–313 and 342–345.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Contact sites in interaction between light-activated rhodopsin and
 transducin (T) have been investigated by using a chemically
 preactivated crosslinking reagent, N-succinimidyl
 3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate. The 3
 propionyl-N-succinimidyl group in the reagent was
 attached by a disulfide exchange reaction to rhodopsin mutants
 containing single reactive cysteine groups in the cytoplasmic loops.
 Complex formation between the derivatized rhodopsin mutants and T was
 carried out by illumination at λ > 495 nm. Subsequent increase in
 pH (from 6 to 7.5 or higher) of the complex resulted in crosslinking of
 rhodopsin to the Tα subunit. Crosslinking to
 Tα was demonstrated for the rhodopsin mutants K141C,
 S240C, and K248C, and the crosslinked sites in Tα were
 identified for the rhodopsin mutant S240C. The peptides carrying the
 crosslinking moiety were isolated from the trypsin-digested peptide
 mixture, and their identification was carried out by matrix-assisted
 laser desorption ionization–time of flight mass spectrometry. The main
 site of crosslinking is within the peptide sequence, Leu-19–Arg-28 at
 the N-terminal region of Tα. The total
 results show that both the N and the C termini of Tα are
 in close vicinity to the third cytoplasmic loop of rhodopsin in the
 complex between rhodopsin and T.
DOC DONE!Abstract
19F nuclear Overhauser effects (NOEs) between fluorine
 labels on the cytoplasmic domain of rhodopsin solubilized in detergent
 micelles are reported. Previously, high-resolution solution
 19F NMR spectra of fluorine-labeled rhodopsin in detergent
 micelles were described, demonstrating the applicability of this
 technique to studies of tertiary structure in the cytoplasmic domain.
 To quantitate tertiary contacts we have applied a transient
 one-dimensional difference NOE solution 19F NMR experiment
 to this system, permitting assessment of proximities between fluorine
 labels specifically incorporated into different regions of the
 cytoplasmic face. Three dicysteine substitution mutants
 (Cys-140–Cys-316, Cys-65–Cys-316, and Cys-139–Cys-251) were labeled
 by attachment of the trifluoroethylthio group through a disulfide
 linkage. Each mutant rhodopsin was prepared (8–10 mg) in
 dodecylmaltoside and analyzed at 20°C by solution 19F
 NMR. Distinct chemical shifts were observed for all of the rhodopsin
 19F labels in the dark. An up-field shift of the Cys-316
 resonance in the Cys-65–Cys-316 mutant suggests a close proximity
 between the two residues. When analyzed for
 19F-19F NOEs, a moderate negative enhancement
 was observed for the Cys-65–Cys-316 pair and a strong negative
 enhancement was observed for the Cys-139–Cys-251 pair, indicating
 proximity between these sites. No NOE enhancement was observed for the
 Cys-140–Cys-316 pair. These NOE effects demonstrate a solution
 19F NMR method for analysis of tertiary contacts in high
 molecular weight proteins, including membrane proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transcription initiation in eukaryotes is controlled by
 nucleoprotein complexes formed through cooperative interactions among
 multiple transcription regulatory proteins. These complexes may be
 assembled via stochastic collisions or defined pathways. We
 investigated the dynamics of Fos-Jun-NFAT1 complexes by using a
 multicolor fluorescence resonance energy transfer assay. Fos-Jun
 heterodimers can bind to AP-1 sites in two opposite orientations, only
 one of which is populated in mature Fos-Jun-NFAT1 complexes. We studied
 the reversal of Fos-Jun binding orientation in response to NFAT1 by
 measuring the efficiencies of energy transfer from donor fluorophores
 linked to opposite ends of an oligonucleotide to an acceptor
 fluorophore linked to one subunit of the heterodimer. The reorientation
 of Fos-Jun by NFAT1 was not inhibited by competitor oligonucleotides or
 heterodimers. The rate of Fos-Jun reorientation was faster than the
 rate of heterodimer dissociation at some binding sites. The facilitated
 reorientation of Fos-Jun heterodimers therefore can enhance the
 efficiency of Fos-Jun-NFAT1 complex formation. We also examined the
 influence of the preferred orientation of Fos-Jun binding on the
 stability and transcriptional activity of Fos-Jun-NFAT1 complexes.
 Complexes formed at sites where Fos-Jun favored the same binding
 orientation in the presence and absence of NFAT1 exhibited an 8-fold
 slower dissociation rate than complexes formed at sites where Fos-Jun
 favored the opposite binding orientation. Fos-Jun-NFAT1 complexes also
 exhibited greater transcription activation at promoter elements that
 favored the same orientation of Fos-Jun binding in the presence and
 absence of NFAT1. Thus, the orientation of heterodimer binding can
 influence both the dynamics and promoter selectivity of
 multiprotein transcription regulatory complexes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of the 2.4-Å resolution crystal structure of the large
 ribosomal subunit from Haloarcula marismortui reveals
 the existence of an abundant and ubiquitous structural motif that
 stabilizes RNA tertiary and quaternary structures. This motif is termed
 the A-minor motif, because it involves the insertion of the smooth,
 minor groove edges of adenines into the minor groove of neighboring
 helices, preferentially at C-G base pairs, where they form hydrogen
 bonds with one or both of the 2′ OHs of those pairs. A-minor motifs
 stabilize contacts between RNA helices, interactions between loops and
 helices, and the conformations of junctions and tight turns. The
 interactions between the 3′ terminal adenine of tRNAs bound in either
 the A site or the P site with 23S rRNA are examples of functionally
 significant A-minor interactions. The A-minor motif is by far the most
 abundant tertiary structure interaction in the large ribosomal subunit;
 186 adenines in 23S and 5S rRNA participate, 68 of which are conserved.
 It may prove to be the universally most important long-range
 interaction in large RNA structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structures of the ligand-binding domains (LBD) of the wild-type
 androgen receptor (AR) and the T877A mutant corresponding to that in
 LNCaP cells, both bound to dihydrotestosterone, have been refined at
 2.0 Å resolution. In contrast to the homodimer seen in the retinoid-X
 receptor and estrogen receptor LBD structures, the AR LBD is monomeric,
 possibly because of the extended C terminus of AR, which lies in a
 groove at the dimerization interface. Binding of the natural ligand
 dihydrotestosterone by the mutant LBD involves interactions with the
 same residues as in the wild-type receptor, with the exception of the
 side chain of threonine 877, which is an alanine residue in the mutant.
 This structural difference in the binding pocket can explain the
 ability of the mutant AR found in LNCaP cells (T877A) to accommodate
 progesterone and other ligands that the wild-type receptor cannot.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Flock house virus (FHV), a single-stranded RNA insect virus, has
 previously been reported to cross the kingdom barrier and replicate in
 barley protoplasts and in inoculated leaves of several plant species
 [Selling, B. H., Allison, R. F. & Kaesberg, P. (1990)
 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87, 434–438]. There was no
 systemic movement of FHV in plants. We tested the ability of movement
 proteins (MPs) of plant viruses to provide movement functions and cause
 systemic spread of FHV in plants. We compared the growth of FHV in
 leaves of nontransgenic and transgenic plants expressing the MP of
 tobacco mosaic virus or red clover necrotic mosaic virus (RCNMV). Both
 MPs mobilized cell-to-cell and systemic movement of FHV in
 Nicotiana benthamiana plants. The yield of FHV was more
 than 100-fold higher in the inoculated leaves of transgenic plants than
 in the inoculated leaves of nontransgenic plants. In addition, FHV
 accumulated in the noninoculated upper leaves of both MP-transgenic
 plants. RCNMV MP was more efficient in mobilizing FHV to noninoculated
 upper leaves. We also report here that FHV replicates in inoculated
 leaves of six additional plant species: alfalfa,
 Arabidopsis, Brassica, cucumber, maize,
 and rice. Our results demonstrate that plant viral MPs cause
 cell-to-cell and long-distance movement of an animal virus in plants
 and offer approaches to the study of the evolution of viruses and
 mechanisms governing mRNA trafficking in plants as well as to the
 development of promising vectors for transient expression of foreign
 genes in plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cobalamins are stored in high concentrations in the human liver and
 thus are available to participate in the regulation of hepatotropic
 virus functions. We show that cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12) inhibited
 the HCV internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-dependent translation of a
 reporter gene in vitro in a dose-dependent manner
 without significantly affecting the cap-dependent mechanism. Vitamin
 B12 failed to inhibit translation by IRES elements from
 encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) or classical swine fever virus
 (CSFV). We also demonstrate a relationship between the total cobalamin
 concentration in human sera and HCV viral load (a measure of viral
 replication in the host). The mean viral load was two orders of
 magnitude greater when the serum cobalamin concentration was above 200
 pM (P < 0.003), suggesting that the total
 cobalamin concentration in an HCV-infected liver is biologically
 significant in HCV replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An unnatural base pair of
 2-amino-6-(N,N-dimethylamino)purine
 (designated as x) and pyridin-2-one (designated as y) has been
 developed for specific transcription. The ribonucleoside triphosphates
 of y and a modified y, 5-methylpyridin-2-one, are selectively
 incorporated into RNA opposite x in the templates by T7 RNA polymerase.
 In addition, the sequences of the DNA templates containing x can be
 confirmed by a dideoxynucleotide chain-terminator method supplemented
 with the deoxynucleoside triphosphate of y. The bulky dimethylamino
 group of x in the templates effectively eliminates noncognate pairing
 with the natural bases. These results enable RNA biosynthesis for the
 specific incorporation of unnatural nucleotides at the desired
 positions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There is increasing evidence that sphingolipid- and
 cholesterol-rich microdomains (rafts) exist in the plasma membrane.
 Specific proteins assemble in these membrane domains and play a role in
 signal transduction and many other cellular events. Cholesterol
 depletion causes disassembly of the raft-associated proteins,
 suggesting an essential role of cholesterol in the structural
 maintenance and function of rafts. However, no tool has been available
 for the detection and monitoring of raft cholesterol in living cells.
 Here we show that a protease-nicked and biotinylated derivative
 (BCθ) of perfringolysin O (θ-toxin) binds selectively to
 cholesterol-rich microdomains of intact cells, the domains that fulfill
 the criteria of rafts. We fractionated the homogenates of nontreated
 and Triton X-100-treated platelets after incubation with BCθ on a
 sucrose gradient. BCθ was predominantly localized in
 the floating low-density fractions (FLDF) where cholesterol,
 sphingomyelin, and Src family kinases are enriched. Immunoelectron
 microscopy demonstrated that BCθ binds to a
 subpopulation of vesicles in FLDF. Depletion of 35% cholesterol from
 platelets with cyclodextrin, which accompanied 76% reduction in
 cholesterol from FLDF, almost completely abolished BCθ binding to
 FLDF. The staining patterns of BCθ and filipin in human epidermoid
 carcinoma A431 cells with and without cholesterol depletion suggest
 that BCθ binds to specific membrane domains on the cell surface,
 whereas filipin binding is indiscriminate to cell cholesterol.
 Furthermore, BCθ binding does not cause any damage to cell membranes,
 indicating that BCθ is a useful probe for the detection of membrane
 rafts in living cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Since the advent of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization
 and electrospray ionization, mass spectrometry has played an
 increasingly important role in protein functional characterization,
 identification, and structural analysis. Expanding this role,
 desorption/ionization on silicon (DIOS) is a new approach that allows
 for the analysis of proteins and related small molecules. Despite the
 absence of matrix, DIOS-MS yields little or no fragmentation and is
 relatively tolerant of moderate amounts of contaminants commonly found
 in biological samples. Here, functional assays were performed on an
 esterase, a glycosidase, a lipase, as well as exo- and endoproteases by
 using enzyme-specific substrates. Enzyme activity also was monitored in
 the presence of inhibitors, successfully demonstrating the ability of
 DIOS to be used as an inhibitor screen. Because DIOS is a matrix-free
 desorption technique, it also can be used as a platform for multiple
 analyses to be performed on the same protein. This unique advantage was
 demonstrated with acetylcholine esterase for qualitative and
 quantitative characterization and also by its subsequent identification
 directly from the DIOS platform.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proteins responsible for the initiation of DNA replication are
 thought to be essentially unrelated in bacteria and
 archaea/eukaryotes. Here we show that RepA, the initiator from the
 Pseudomonas plasmid pPS10, and the C-terminal domain of
 ScOrc4p, a subunit of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sc)
 origin recognition complex (ORC), share sequence similarities. Based on
 biochemical and spectroscopic evidence, these similarities include
 common structural elements, such as a winged-helix domain and a
 leucine-zipper dimerization motif. We have also found that ScOrc4p, as
 previously described for RepA-type initiators, interacts with
 chaperones of the Hsp70 family both in vitro and
 in vivo, most probably to regulate the assembly of
 active ORC. In evolutionary terms, our results are compatible with the
 recruitment of the same protein module for initiation of DNA
 replication by the ancestors of present-day Gram-negative bacteria
 plasmids, archaea, and eukaryotes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have investigated the dynamic properties of the switch I region
 of the GTP-binding protein Ras by using mutants of Thr-35, an invariant
 residue necessary for the switch function. Here we show that these
 mutants, previously used as partial loss-of-function mutations in
 cell-based assays, have a reduced affinity to Ras effector proteins
 without Thr-35 being involved in any interaction. The structure of
 Ras(T35S)⋅GppNHp was determined by x-ray crystallography. Whereas
 the overall structure is very similar to wildtype, residues from
 switch I are completely invisible, indicating that the effector loop
 region is highly mobile. 31P-NMR data had indicated an
 equilibrium between two rapidly interconverting conformations, one of
 which (state 2) corresponds to the structure found in the complex with
 the effectors. 31P-NMR spectra of Ras mutants (T35S) and
 (T35A) in the GppNHp form show that the equilibrium is shifted such
 that they occur predominantly in the nonbinding conformation (state 1).
 On addition of Ras effectors, Ras(T35S) but not Ras(T35A) shift to
 positions corresponding to the binding conformation. The structural
 data were correlated with kinetic experiments that show two-step
 binding reaction of wild-type and (T35S)Ras with effectors requires the
 existence of a rate-limiting isomerization step, which is not observed
 with T35A. The results indicate that minor changes in the switch
 region, such as removing the side chain methyl group of Thr-35,
 drastically affect dynamic behavior and, in turn, interaction with
 effectors. The dynamics of the switch I region appear to be responsible
 for the conservation of this threonine residue in GTP-binding proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Applied molecular evolution is a rapidly developing technology that
 can be used to create and identify novel enzymes that nature has not
 selected. An important application of this technology is the creation
 of highly drug-resistant enzymes for cancer gene therapy. Seventeen
 O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT)
 mutants highly resistant to O6-benzylguanine
 (BG) were identified previously by screening 8 million variants, using
 genetic complementation in Escherichia coli. To examine
 the potential of these mutants for use in humans, the sublibrary of AGT
 clones was introduced to human hematopoietic cells and stringently
 selected for resistance to killing by the combination of BG and
 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea. This competitive analysis between
 the mutants in human cells revealed three AGT mutants that conferred
 remarkable resistance to the combination of BG and
 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea. Of these, one was recovered
 significantly more frequently than the others. Upon further analysis,
 this mutant displayed a level of BG resistance in human hematopoietic
 cells greater than that of any previously reported mutant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have demonstrated that it is possible to radically change the
 specificity of maltose binding protein by converting it into a zinc
 sensor using a rational design approach. In this new molecular sensor,
 zinc binding is transduced into a readily detected fluorescence signal
 by use of an engineered conformational coupling mechanism linking
 ligand binding to reporter group response. An iterative progressive
 design strategy led to the construction of variants with increased zinc
 affinity by combining binding sites, optimizing the primary
 coordination sphere, and exploiting conformational equilibria.
 Intermediates in the design series show that the adaptive process
 involves both introduction and optimization of new functions and
 removal of adverse vestigial interactions. The latter demonstrates the
 importance of the rational design approach in uncovering cryptic
 phenomena in protein function, which cannot be revealed by the study of
 naturally evolved systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPases and their regulatory
 proteins have been implicated in the control of diverse biological
 functions. Two main classes of positive regulatory elements for ARF
 have been discovered so far: the large Sec7/Gea and the small
 cytohesin/ARNO families, respectively. These proteins harbor
 guanine–nucleotide-exchange factor (GEF) activity exerted by the
 common Sec7 domain. The availability of a specific inhibitor, the
 fungal metabolite brefeldin A, has enabled documentation of the
 involvement of the large GEFs in vesicle transport. However, because of
 the lack of such tools, the biological roles of the small GEFs have
 remained controversial. Here, we have selected a series of RNA aptamers
 that specifically recognize the Sec7 domain of cytohesin 1. Some
 aptamers inhibit guanine–nucleotide exchange on ARF1, thereby
 preventing ARF activation in vitro. Among them, aptamer
 M69 exhibited unexpected specificity for the small GEFs, because it
 does not interact with or inhibit the GEF activity of the related
 Gea2-Sec7 domain, a member of the class of large GEFs. The inhibitory
 effect demonstrated in vitro clearly is observed as well
 in vivo, based on the finding that M69 produces similar
 results as a dominant-negative, GEF-deficient mutant of cytohesin 1:
 when expressed in the cytoplasm of T-cells, M69 reduces stimulated
 adhesion to intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and results in a dramatic
 reorganization of F-actin distribution. These highly specific cellular
 effects suggest that the ARF-GEF activity of cytohesin 1 plays an
 important role in cytoskeletal remodeling events of lymphoid cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The stoichiometry of c subunits in the
 H+-transporting Fo rotary motor of ATP synthase
 is uncertain, the most recent suggestions varying from 10 to 14. The
 stoichiometry will determine the number of H+ transported
 per ATP synthesized and will directly relate to the P/O ratio of
 oxidative phosphorylation. The experiments described here show that the
 number of c subunits in functional complexes of
 FoF1 ATP synthase from Escherichia
 coli can be manipulated, but that the preferred number is 10.
 Mixtures of genetically fused cysteine-substituted trimers
 (c3) and tetramers
 (c4) of subunit c were
 coexpressed and the c subunits crosslinked in the plasma
 membrane. Prominent products corresponding to oligomers of
 c7 and c10 were
 observed in the membrane and purified FoF1
 complex, indicating that the c10 oligomer
 formed naturally. Oligomers larger than c10
 were also observed in the membrane fraction of cells expressing
 c3 or c4
 individually, or in cells coexpressing c3
 and c4 together, but these larger oligomers
 did not copurify with the functional FoF1
 complex and were concluded to be aberrant products of assembly in the
 membrane.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Copy-choice RNA recombination occurs during viral RNA synthesis
 when the viral transcription complex switches templates. We demonstrate
 that RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from bovine viral diarrhea virus and
 the replicases from three plant-infecting RNA viruses can produce
 easily detectable recombination products in vitro by
 switching templates during elongative RNA synthesis. Template sequence
 and/or structure, and NTP availability affected the frequency of
 template switch by the transcription complex. Our results provide
 biochemical support for copy-choice recombination and establish assays
 for mechanistic analyses of intermolecular RNA recombination in
 vitro.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA polymerase ɛ (Polɛ) is thought to be involved in DNA
 replication, repair, and cell-cycle checkpoint control in eukaryotic
 cells. Although the requirement of other replicative DNA polymerases,
 DNA polymerases α and δ (Polα and δ), for chromosomal DNA
 replication has been well documented by genetic and biochemical
 studies, the precise role, if any, of Polɛ in chromosomal DNA
 replication is still obscure. Here we show, with the use of a cell-free
 replication system with Xenopus egg extracts, that
 Xenopus Polɛ is indeed required for chromosomal DNA
 replication. In Polɛ-depleted extracts, the elongation step of
 chromosomal DNA replication is markedly impaired, resulting in
 significant reduction of the overall DNA synthesis as well as
 accumulation of small replication intermediates. Moreover, despite the
 decreased DNA synthesis, excess amounts of Polα are loaded onto the
 chromatin template in Polɛ-depleted extracts, indicative of the
 failure of proper assembly of DNA synthesis machinery at the fork.
 These findings strongly suggest that Polɛ, along with Polα and
 Polδ, is necessary for coordinated chromosomal DNA replication in
 eukaryotic cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Effective antiviral agents are thought to inhibit hepatitis B virus
 (HBV) DNA synthesis irreversibly by chain termination because reverse
 transcriptases (RT) lack an exonucleolytic activity that can remove
 incorporated nucleotides. However, since the parameters governing this
 inhibition are poorly defined, fully delineating the catalytic
 mechanism of the HBV-RT promises to facilitate the development of
 antiviral drugs for treating chronic HBV infection. To this end,
 pyrophosphorolysis and pyrophosphate exchange, two nonhydrolytic RT
 activities that result in the removal of newly incorporated
 nucleotides, were characterized by using endogenous avian
 HBV replication complexes assembled in vivo. Although
 these activities are presumed to be physiologically irrelevant for
 every polymerase examined, the efficiency with which they are catalyzed
 by the avian HBV-RT strongly suggests that it is the first known
 polymerase to catalyze these reactions under replicative conditions.
 The ability to remove newly incorporated nucleotides during replication
 has important biological and clinical implications: these activities
 may serve a primer-unblocking function in vivo. Analysis
 of pyrophosphorolysis on chain-terminated DNA revealed that the potent
 anti-HBV drug β-l-(−)-2′,3′-dideoxy-3′-thiacytidine
 (3TC) was difficult to remove by pyrophosphorolysis, in contrast to
 ineffective chain terminators such as ddC. This disparity may account
 for the strong antiviral efficacy of 3TC versus that of ddC. The HBV-RT
 pyrophosphorolytic activity may therefore be a novel determinant of
 antiviral drug efficacy, and could serve as a target for future
 antiviral drug therapy. The strong inhibitory effect of cytoplasmic
 pyrophosphate concentrations on viral DNA synthesis may also partly
 account for the apparent slow rate of HBV genome replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes is a common feature of
 human cancer. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor gene
 p16/Ink4A is hypermethylated in a wide range of
 malignant tissues and the p14/ARF gene located 20 kb
 upstream on chromosome 9p21 is also methylated in carcinomas.
 p14/ARF (ARF, alternative reading frame) does not
 inhibit the activities of cyclins or cyclin-dependent kinase complexes;
 however, the importance of the two gene products in the etiology of
 cancer resides in their involvement in two major cell cycle regulatory
 pathways: p53 and the retinoblastoma protein, Rb, respectively.
 Distinct first exons driven from separate promoters are spliced onto
 the common exons 2 and 3 and the resulting proteins are translated in
 different reading frames. Both genes are expressed in normal cells but
 can be alternatively or coordinately silenced when their CpG islands
 are hypermethylated. Herein, we examined the presence of methyl-CpG
 binding proteins associated with aberrantly methylated promoters, the
 distribution of acetylated histones H3 and H4 by chromatin
 immunoprecipitation assays, and the effect of chemical treatment with
 5-aza-2′-deoxycytidine (5aza-dC) and trichostatin A on gene induction
 in colon cell lines by quantitative reverse transcriptase–PCR. We
 observed that the methyl-CpG binding protein MBD2 is targeted to
 methylated regulatory regions and excludes the acetylated histones H3
 and H4, resulting in a localized inactive chromatin configuration. When
 methylated, the genes can be induced by 5aza-dC but the combined action
 of 5aza-dC and trichostatin A results in robust gene expression. Thus,
 methyl-CpG binding proteins and histone deacetylases appear to
 cooperate in vivo, with a dominant effect of DNA
 methylation toward histone acetylation, and repress expression of tumor
 suppressor genes hypermethylated in cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is generally accepted that globular proteins fold with a
 hydrophobic core and a hydrophilic exterior. Might the spatial
 distribution of amino acid hydrophobicity exhibit common features? The
 hydrophobic profile detailing this distribution from the protein
 interior to exterior has been examined for 30 relatively diverse
 structures obtained from the Protein Data Bank, for 3 proteins of the
 30S ribosomal subunit, and for a simple set of 14 decoys. A
 second-order hydrophobic moment has provided a simple measure of the
 spatial variation. Shapes of the calculated spatial profiles of all
 native structures have been found to be comparable. Consequently,
 profile shapes as well as particular profile features should assist in
 validating predicted protein structures and in discriminating between
 different protein-folding pathways. The spatial profiles of the 14
 decoys are clearly distinguished from the profiles of their native
 structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The current understanding of electron tunneling
 through proteins has come from work on systems where
 donors and acceptors are held at fixed distances and orientations. The
 factors that control electron flow between proteins are
 less well understood, owing to uncertainties in the relative
 orientations and structures of the reactants during the very short time
 that tunneling occurs. As we report here, the way around such
 structural ambiguity is to examine oxidation–reduction reactions in
 protein crystals. Accordingly, we have measured and analyzed the
 kinetics of electron transfer between native and Zn-substituted tuna
 cytochrome c (cyt c) molecules in
 crystals of known structure. Electron transfer rates [(320
 s−1 for *Zn-cyt c → Fe(III)-cyt
 c; 2000 s−1 for Fe(II)-cyt c
 → Zn-cyt c+)] over a Zn–Fe distance of
 24.1 Å closely match those for intraprotein electron tunneling over
 similar donor–acceptor separations. Our results indicate that van der
 Waals interactions and water-mediated hydrogen bonds are effective
 coupling elements for tunneling across a protein–protein interface.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Escherichia coli protein DbpA is unique in
 its subclass of DEAD box RNA helicases, because it possesses
 ATPase-specific activity toward the peptidyl transferase center in 23S
 rRNA. Although its remarkable ATPase activity had been well defined
 toward various substrates, its RNA helicase activity remained to be
 characterized. Herein, we show by using biochemical assays and atomic
 force microscopy that DbpA exhibits ATP-stimulated unwinding activity
 of RNA duplex regardless of its primary sequence. This work presents an
 attempt to investigate the action of DEAD box proteins by a
 single-molecule visualization methodology. Our atomic force microscopy
 images enabled us to observe directly the unwinding reaction of a DEAD
 box helicase on long stretches of double-stranded RNA. Specifically, we
 could differentiate between the binding of DbpA to RNA in the absence
 of ATP and the formation of a Y-shaped intermediate after its
 progression through double-stranded RNA in the presence of ATP. Recent
 studies have questioned the designation of DbpA, in particular, and
 DEAD box proteins in general as RNA helicases. However, accumulated
 evidence and the results reported herein suggest that these proteins
 are indeed helicases that resemble in many aspects the DNA helicases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cytochrome c oxidase is a membrane-bound enzyme that
 catalyzes the four-electron reduction of oxygen to water. This highly
 exergonic reaction drives proton pumping across the membrane. One of
 the key questions associated with the function of cytochrome
 c oxidase is how the transfer of electrons and protons
 is coupled and how proton transfer is controlled by the enzyme. In this
 study we focus on the function of one of the proton transfer pathways
 of the R. sphaeroides enzyme, the so-called K-proton
 transfer pathway (containing a highly conserved Lys(I-362) residue),
 leading from the protein surface to the catalytic site. We have
 investigated the kinetics of the reaction of the reduced enzyme with
 oxygen in mutants of the enzyme in which a residue [Ser(I-299)] near
 the entry point of the pathway was modified with the use of
 site-directed mutagenesis. The results show that during the initial
 steps of oxygen reduction, electron transfer to the catalytic site (to
 form the “peroxy” state, Pr) requires charge
 compensation through the proton pathway, but no proton uptake from the
 bulk solution. The charge compensation is proposed to involve a
 movement of the K(I-362) side chain toward the binuclear center. Thus,
 in contrast to what has been assumed previously, the results indicate
 that the K-pathway is used during oxygen reduction and that K(I-362) is
 charged at pH ≈ 7.5. The movement of the Lys is proposed to regulate
 proton transfer by “shutting off” the protonic connectivity
 through the K-pathway after initiation of the O2 reduction
 chemistry. This “shutoff” prevents a short-circuit of the
 proton-pumping machinery of the enzyme during the subsequent reaction
 steps.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The theory of stochastic transcription termination based on
 free-energy competition [von Hippel, P. H. & Yager, T. D.
 (1992) Science 255, 809–812 and von Hippel, P. H.
 & Yager, T. D. (1991) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 88, 2307–2311] requires two or more reaction rates
 to be delicately balanced over a wide range of physical conditions. A
 large body of work on glasses and large molecules suggests that this
 balancing should be impossible in such a large system in the absence of
 a new organizing principle of matter. We review the experimental
 literature of termination and find no evidence for such a principle,
 but do find many troubling inconsistencies, most notably, anomalous
 memory effects. These effects suggest that termination has a
 deterministic component and may conceivably not be stochastic at all.
 We find that a key experiment by Wilson and von Hippel [Wilson,
 K. S. & von Hippel, P. H. (1994) J. Mol. Biol.
 244, 36–51] thought to demonstrate stochastic termination was an
 incorrectly analyzed regulatory effect of Mg2+ binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chemically induced skin carcinomas in mice are a paradigm for
 epithelial neoplasia, where oncogenic ras mutations
 precede p53 and
 INK4a/ARF mutations during the
 progression toward malignancy. To explore the biological basis for
 these genetic interactions, we studied cellular responses to oncogenic
 ras in primary murine keratinocytes. In wild-type
 keratinocytes, ras induced a cell-cycle arrest that
 displayed some features of terminal differentiation and was accompanied
 by increased expression of the p19ARF,
 p16INK4a, and p53 tumor suppressors. In
 ARF-null keratinocytes, ras was unable to
 promote cell-cycle arrest, induce differentiation markers, or properly
 activate p53. Although oncogenic ras produced a
 substantial increase in both nucleolar and nucleoplasmic
 p19ARF, Mdm2 did not relocalize to the nucleolus or to
 nuclear bodies but remained distributed throughout the nucleoplasm.
 This result suggests that p19ARF can activate p53 without
 overtly affecting Mdm2 subcellular localization. Nevertheless, like
 p53-null keratinocytes, ARF-null
 keratinocytes were transformed by oncogenic ras and
 rapidly formed carcinomas in vivo. Thus, oncogenic
 ras can activate the ARF-p53 program to suppress
 epithelial cell transformation. Disruption of this program may be
 important during skin carcinogenesis and the development of other
 carcinomas.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have shown that the DNA demethylation complex isolated from
 chicken embryos has a G⋅T mismatch DNA glycosylase that also
 possesses 5-methylcytosine DNA glycosylase (5-MCDG) activity. Herein we
 show that human embryonic kidney cells stably transfected with 5-MCDG
 cDNA linked to a cytomegalovirus promoter overexpress 5-MCDG. A 15- to
 20-fold overexpression of 5-MCDG results in the specific demethylation
 of a stably integrated ecdysone-retinoic acid responsive
 enhancer-promoter linked to a β-galactosidase reporter gene.
 Demethylation occurs in the absence of the ligand ponasterone A (an
 analogue of ecdysone). The state of methylation of the transgene was
 investigated by Southern blot analysis and by the bisulfite genomic
 sequencing reaction. Demethylation occurs downstream of the hormone
 response elements. No genome-wide demethylation was observed. The
 expression of an inactive mutant of 5-MCDG or the empty vector does not
 elicit any demethylation of the promoter-enhancer of the reporter gene.
 An increase in 5-MCDG activity does not influence the activity of DNA
 methyltransferase(s) when tested in vitro with a
 hemimethylated substrate. There is no change in the transgene copy
 number during selection of the clones with antibiotics.
 Immunoprecipitation combined with Western blot analysis showed that an
 antibody directed against 5-MCDG precipitates a complex containing the
 retinoid X receptor α. The association between retinoid receptor and
 5-MCDG is not ligand dependent. These results suggest that a complex of
 the hormone receptor with 5-MCDG may target demethylation of the
 transgene in this system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In skeletal muscle, transcription of the gene encoding the mouse
 type Iα (RIα) subunit of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase is
 initiated from the alternative noncoding first exons 1a and 1b. Here,
 we report that activity of the promoter upstream of exon 1a (Pa)
 depends on two adjacent E boxes (E1 and E2) in NIH 3T3-transfected
 fibroblasts as well as in intact muscle. Both basal activity and MyoD
 transactivation of the Pa promoter require binding of the upstream
 stimulating factors (USF) to E1. E2 binds either an unknown protein in
 a USF/E1 complex-dependent manner or MyoD. Both E2-bound proteins
 seem to function as repressors, but with different strengths, of the
 USF transactivation potential. Previous work has shown localization of
 the RIα protein at the neuromuscular junction. Using DNA injection
 into muscle of plasmids encoding segments of RIα or RIIα fused to
 green fluorescent protein, we demonstrate that anchoring at the
 neuromuscular junction is specific to RIα subunits and requires the
 amino-terminal residues 1–81. Mutagenesis of Phe-54 to Ala in the
 full-length RIα–green fluorescent protein template abolishes
 localization, indicating that dimerization of RIα is essential for
 anchoring. Moreover, two other hydrophobic residues, Val-22 and Ile-27,
 are crucial for localization of RIα at the neuromuscular junction.
 These amino acids are involved in the interaction of the
 Caenorhabditis elegans type Iα
 homologue RCE with AKAPCE and for in
 vitro binding of RIα to dual A-kinase anchoring protein 1. We
 also show enrichment of dual A-kinase anchoring protein 1 at the
 neuromuscular junction, suggesting that it could be responsible for
 RIα tethering at this site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Skp2 is a member of the F-box family of substrate-recognition
 subunits of SCF ubiquitin–protein ligase complexes that has been
 implicated in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of several key
 regulators of mammalian G1 progression, including the
 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, a dosage-dependent tumor
 suppressor protein. In this study, we examined Skp2 and p27 protein
 expression by immunohistochemistry in normal oral epithelium and in
 different stages of malignant oral cancer progression, including
 dysplasia and oral squamous cell carcinoma. We found that increased
 levels of Skp2 protein are associated with reduced p27 in a subset of
 oral epithelial dysplasias and carcinomas compared with normal
 epithelial controls. Tumors with high Skp2 (>20% positive cells)
 expression invariably showed reduced or absent p27 and tumors with high
 p27 (>20% positive cells) expression rarely showed Skp2 positivity.
 Increased Skp2 protein levels were not always correlated with increased
 cell proliferation (assayed by Ki-67 staining), suggesting that
 alterations of Skp2 may contribute to the malignant phenotype without
 affecting proliferation. Skp2 protein overexpression may lead to
 accelerated p27 proteolysis and contribute to malignant progression
 from dysplasia to oral epithelial carcinoma. Moreover, we also
 demonstrate that Skp2 has oncogenic potential by showing that Skp2
 cooperates with H-RasG12V to malignantly transform primary
 rodent fibroblasts as scored by colony formation in soft agar and tumor
 formation in nude mice. The observations that Skp2 can mediate
 transformation and is up-regulated during oral epithelial
 carcinogenesis support a role for Skp2 as a protooncogene in human
 tumors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) and other
 members of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) family can suppress
 apoptosis induced by a diverse variety of triggers. Functional
 studies done to date have focused on tissue culture models and
 adenovirus overexpression of XIAP and other IAP proteins. Here we
 report the phenotype of an engineered transgenic mouse overexpressing a
 human IAP, as well as assessing the long-term consequence of IAP
 overexpression. We document the relative protein expression levels of
 the endogenous mouse homologue to XIAP, mouse inhibitor of
 apoptosis (MIAP 3), within thymocyte and T cell subpopulations.
 The consequence of lymphoid-targeted overexpression of XIAP in
 transgenic mice suggests a physiological role for the
 endogenous protein, MIAP3. Xiap-transgenic
 mice accumulated thymocytes and/or T cells in primary and secondary
 lymphoid tissue, T cell maturation was perturbed, and transgenic
 thymocytes resisted a variety of apoptotic triggers both
 in vitro and in vivo. These observations
 imply a possible key function for the intrinsic cellular inhibitor XIAP
 in maintaining the homeostasis of the immune system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dorsoventral patterning of the Drosophila embryo is
 initiated by a ventralizing signal. Production of this signal requires
 the serine proteases Gastrulation Defective (GD), Snake, and Easter,
 which genetic studies suggest act sequentially in a cascade that is
 activated locally in response to a ventral cue provided by the
 pipe gene. Here, we demonstrate biochemically that GD
 activates Snake, which in turn activates Easter. We also provide
 evidence that GD zymogen cleavage is important for triggering this
 cascade but is not spatially localized by pipe. Our
 results suggest that a broadly, rather than locally, activated protease
 cascade produces the ventralizing signal, so a distinct downstream step
 in this cascade must be spatially regulated to restrict signaling to
 the ventral side of the embryo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Caenorhabditis elegans
 maternal-effect sterile genes, mes-2,
 mes-3, mes-4, and mes-6,
 encode nuclear proteins that are essential for germ-line development.
 They are thought to be involved in a common process because their
 mutant phenotypes are similar. MES-2 and MES-6 are homologs of Enhancer
 of zeste and extra sex combs, both members of the Polycomb group of
 chromatin regulators in insects and vertebrates. MES-3 is a novel
 protein, and MES-4 is a SET-domain protein. To investigate whether the
 MES proteins interact and likely function as a complex, we performed
 biochemical analyses on C. elegans embryo extracts.
 Results of immunoprecipitation experiments indicate that MES-2, MES-3,
 and MES-6 are associated in a complex and that MES-4 is not associated
 with this complex. Based on in vitro binding assays,
 MES-2 and MES-6 interact directly, via the amino terminal portion of
 MES-2. Sucrose density gradient fractionation and gel filtration
 chromatography were performed to determine the Stokes radius and
 sedimentation coefficient of the MES-2/MES-3/MES-6 complex. Based
 on those two values, we estimate that the molecular mass of the complex
 is ≈255 kDa, close to the sum of the three known components. Our
 results suggest that the two C. elegans Polycomb group
 homologs (MES-2 and MES-6) associate with a novel partner (MES-3) to
 regulate germ-line development in C. elegans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transition of many Caribbean reefs from coral to macroalgal
 dominance has been a prominent issue in coral reef ecology for more
 than 20 years. Alternative stable state theory predicts that these
 changes are reversible but, to date, there is little indication of this
 having occurred. Here we present evidence of the initiation of such a
 reversal in Jamaica, where shallow reefs at five sites along 8 km of
 coastline now are characterized by a sea urchin-grazed zone with a mean
 width of 60 m. In comparison to the seaward algal zone, macroalgae
 are rare in the urchin zone, where the density of Diadema
 antillarum is 10 times higher and the density of juvenile
 corals is up to 11 times higher. These densities are close to those
 recorded in the late 1970s and early 1980s and are in striking contrast
 to the decade-long recruitment failure for both Diadema
 and scleractinians. If these trends continue and expand spatially,
 reefs throughout the Caribbean may again become dominated by corals and
 algal turf.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Census data on endangered species are often sparse, error-ridden,
 and confined to only a segment of the population. Estimating trends and
 extinction risks using this type of data presents numerous
 difficulties. In particular, the estimate of the variation in
 year-to-year transitions in population size (the “process error”
 caused by stochasticity in survivorship and fecundities) is confounded
 by the addition of high sampling error variation. In addition, the
 year-to-year variability in the segment of the population that is
 sampled may be quite different from the population variability that one
 is trying to estimate. The combined effect of severe sampling error and
 age- or stage-specific counts leads to severe biases in estimates of
 population-level parameters. I present an estimation method that
 circumvents the problem of age- or stage-specific counts and is
 markedly robust to severe sampling error. This method allows the
 estimation of environmental variation and population trends for
 extinction-risk analyses using corrupted census counts—a common type
 of data for endangered species that has hitherto been relatively
 unusable for these analyses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human history is punctuated by periods of rapid cultural change.
 Although archeologists have developed a range of models to describe
 cultural transitions, in most real examples we do not know whether the
 processes involved the movement of people or the movement of culture
 only. With a series of relatively well defined cultural transitions,
 the British Isles present an ideal opportunity to assess the
 demographic context of cultural change. Important transitions after the
 first Paleolithic settlements include the Neolithic, the development of
 Iron Age cultures, and various historical invasions from continental
 Europe. Here we show that patterns of Y-chromosome variation indicate
 that the Neolithic and Iron Age transitions in the British Isles
 occurred without large-scale male movements. The more recent invasions
 from Scandinavia, on the other hand, appear to have left a significant
 paternal genetic legacy. In contrast, patterns of mtDNA and
 X-chromosome variation indicate that one or more of these
 pre-Anglo-Saxon cultural revolutions had a major effect on the maternal
 genetic heritage of the British Isles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mobile element dynamics in seven alleles of the chalcone synthase D
 locus (CHS-D) of the common morning glory (Ipomoea
 purpurea) are analyzed in the context of synonymous nucleotide
 sequence distances for CHS-D exons. By using a nucleotide sequence of
 CHS-D from the sister species Ipomoea nil (Japanese
 morning glory [Johzuka-Hisatomi, Y., Hoshino, A., Mori, T., Habu, Y. &
 Iida, S. (1999) Genes Genet. Syst. 74, 141–147], it is
 also possible to determine the relative frequency of insertion and loss
 of elements within the CHS-D locus between these two species. At least
 four different types of transposable elements exist upstream of the
 coding region, or within the single intron of the CHS-D locus in
 I. purpurea. There are three distinct families of
 miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITES), and some
 recent transpositions of Activator/Dissociation (Ac/Ds)-like
 elements (Tip100), of some short interspersed repetitive elements
 (SINEs), and of an insertion sequence (InsIpCHSD) found in the
 neighborhood of this locus. The data provide no compelling evidence of
 the transposition of the mites since the separation of I.
 nil and I. purpurea roughly 8 million years ago.
 Finally, it is shown that the number and frequency of mobile elements
 are highly heterogeneous among different duplicate CHS loci, suggesting
 that the dynamics observed at CHS-D are locus-specific.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cannibalism is widespread in natural populations of fishes, where
 the stomachs of adults frequently contain conspecific juveniles.
 Furthermore, field observations suggest that guardian males routinely
 eat offspring from their own nests. However, recent genetic paternity
 analyses have shown that fish nests often contain embryos not sired by
 the nest-tending male (because of cuckoldry events, egg thievery, or
 nest piracy). Such findings, coupled with the fact that several fish
 species have known capabilities for distinguishing kin from nonkin,
 raise the possibility that cannibalism by guardian males is directed
 primarily or exclusively toward unrelated embryos in their nests. Here,
 we test this hypothesis by collecting freshly cannibalized embryos from
 the stomachs of several nest-tending darter and sunfish males in nature
 and determining their genetic parentage by using polymorphic
 microsatellite markers. Our molecular results clearly indicate that
 guardian males do indeed consume their own genetic offspring, even when
 unrelated (foster) embryos are present within the nest. These data
 provide genetic documentation of filial cannibalism in nature.
 Furthermore, they suggest that the phenomenon may result, at least in
 part, from an inability of guardians to differentiate between kin and
 nonkin within their own nests.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In laboratory rodents, caloric restriction (CR) retards
 several age-dependent physiological and biochemical changes in skeletal
 muscle, including increased steady-state levels of oxidative damage to
 lipids, DNA, and proteins. We have previously used high-density
 oligonucleotide arrays to show that CR can prevent or delay most of the
 major age-related transcriptional alterations in the gastrocnemius
 muscle of C57BL/6 mice. Here we report the effects of aging and
 adult-onset CR on the gene expression profile of 7,070 genes in the
 vastus lateralis muscle from rhesus monkeys. Gene expression analysis
 of aged rhesus monkeys (mean age of 26 years) was compared with that of
 young animals (mean age of 8 years). Aging resulted in a selective
 up-regulation of transcripts involved in inflammation and oxidative
 stress, and a down-regulation of genes involved in mitochondrial
 electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation. Middle-aged monkeys
 (mean age of 20 years) subjected to CR since early adulthood (mean age
 of 11 years) were studied to determine the gene expression profile
 induced by CR. CR resulted in an up-regulation of cytoskeletal
 protein-encoding genes, and also a decrease in the expression of genes
 involved in mitochondrial bioenergetics. Surprisingly, we did not
 observe any evidence for an inhibitory effect of adult-onset CR on
 age-related changes in gene expression. These results indicate that the
 induction of an oxidative stress-induced transcriptional response may
 be a common feature of aging in skeletal muscle of rodents and
 primates, but the extent to which CR modifies these responses may be
 species-specific.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previously conducted sequence analysis of Arabidopsis
 thaliana (ecotype Columbia-0) reported an insertion of 270-kb
 mtDNA into the pericentric region on the short arm of chromosome 2. DNA
 fiber-based fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses
 reveal that the mtDNA insert is 618 ± 42 kb, ≈2.3 times greater
 than that determined by contig assembly and sequencing analysis.
 Portions of the mitochondrial genome previously believed to be absent
 were identified within the insert. Sections of the mtDNA are repeated
 throughout the insert. The cytological data illustrate that DNA contig
 assembly by using bacterial artificial chromosomes tends to produce a
 minimal clone path by skipping over duplicated regions, thereby
 resulting in sequencing errors. We demonstrate that fiber-fluorescence
 in situ hybridization is a powerful technique to analyze
 large repetitive regions in the higher eukaryotic genomes and is a
 valuable complement to ongoing large genome sequencing projects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ewes from the Booroola strain of Australian Mérino sheep are
 characterized by high ovulation rate and litter size. This phenotype is
 due to the action of the FecBB
 allele of a major gene named FecB, as
 determined by statistical analysis of phenotypic data. By genetic
 analysis of 31 informative half-sib families from heterozygous sires,
 we showed that the FecB locus is situated in the region
 of ovine chromosome 6 corresponding to the human chromosome 4q22–23
 that contains the bone morphogenetic protein receptor IB
 (BMPR-IB) gene encoding a member of the transforming
 growth factor-β (TGF-β) receptor family. A nonconservative
 substitution (Q249R) in the BMPR-IB coding sequence was
 found to be associated fully with the hyperprolificacy phenotype of
 Booroola ewes. In vitro, ovarian granulosa cells from
 FecBB/FecBB
 ewes were less responsive than granulosa cells from
 FecB+/FecB+
 ewes to the inhibitory effect on steroidogenesis of GDF-5 and BMP-4,
 natural ligands of BMPR-IB. It is suggested that in
 FecBB/FecBB
 ewes, BMPR-IB would be inactivated partially, leading to an advanced
 differentiation of granulosa cells and an advanced maturation of
 ovulatory follicles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Filamentous fungi are a large group of diverse and economically
 important microorganisms. Large-scale gene disruption strategies
 developed in budding yeast are not applicable to these organisms
 because of their larger genomes and lower rate of targeted integration
 (TI) during transformation. We developed transposon-arrayed gene
 knockouts (TAGKO) to discover genes and simultaneously create gene
 disruption cassettes for subsequent transformation and mutant analysis.
 Transposons carrying a bacterial and fungal drug resistance marker are
 used to mutagenize individual cosmids or entire libraries in
 vitro. Cosmids are annotated by DNA sequence analysis at the
 transposon insertion sites, and cosmid inserts are liberated to direct
 insertional mutagenesis events in the genome. Based on saturation
 analysis of a cosmid insert and insertions in a fungal cosmid library,
 we show that TAGKO can be used to rapidly identify and mutate genes. We
 further show that insertions can create alterations in gene expression,
 and we have used this approach to investigate an amino acid oxidation
 pathway in two important fungal phytopathogens.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microarrays can measure the expression of
 thousands of genes to identify changes in expression between different
 biological states. Methods are needed to determine the significance of
 these changes while accounting for the enormous number of genes. We
 describe a method, Significance Analysis of Microarrays (SAM), that
 assigns a score to each gene on the basis of change in gene expression
 relative to the standard deviation of repeated measurements. For genes
 with scores greater than an adjustable threshold, SAM uses permutations
 of the repeated measurements to estimate the percentage of genes
 identified by chance, the false discovery rate (FDR). When the
 transcriptional response of human cells to ionizing radiation was
 measured by microarrays, SAM identified 34 genes that changed at least
 1.5-fold with an estimated FDR of 12%, compared with FDRs of 60 and
 84% by using conventional methods of analysis. Of the 34 genes, 19
 were involved in cell cycle regulation and 3 in apoptosis.
 Surprisingly, four nucleotide excision repair genes were induced,
 suggesting that this repair pathway for UV-damaged DNA might play a
 previously unrecognized role in repairing DNA damaged by ionizing
 radiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many DNA polymerases (Pol) have an intrinsic 3′→5′ exonuclease
 (Exo) activity which corrects polymerase errors and prevents mutations.
 We describe a role of the 3′→5′ Exo of Pol δ as a supplement or
 backup for the Rad27/Fen1 5′ flap endonuclease. A
 yeast rad27 null allele was lethal in combination with
 Pol δ mutations in Exo I, Exo II, and Exo III motifs that inactivate
 its exonuclease, but it was viable with mutations in other parts of Pol
 δ. The rad27-p allele, which has little
 phenotypic effect by itself, was also lethal in combination with
 mutations in the Pol δ Exo I and Exo II motifs. However,
 rad27-p Pol δ Exo III double mutants were viable. They
 exhibited strong synergistic increases in CAN1
 duplication mutations, intrachromosomal and interchromosomal
 recombination, and required the wild-type double-strand break repair
 genes RAD50, RAD51, and
 RAD52 for viability. Observed effects were similar to
 those of the rad27-null mutant deficient in the removal
 of 5′ flaps in the lagging strand. These results suggest that the
 3′→5′ Exo activity of Pol δ is redundant with Rad27/Fen1 for
 creating ligatable nicks between adjacent Okazaki fragments, possibly
 by reducing the amount of strand-displacement in the lagging strand.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The SecY/Sec61α family of membrane proteins are the central
 subunits of the putative protein translocation channel. We introduced
 random mutations into a segment of Escherichia coli SecY
 within its cytoplasmic domain 5, which was shown previously to be
 important for the SecA-dependent translocation activity. Mutations were
 classified into those retaining function and those gaining a
 dominant-interfering ability caused by a loss of function. These
 analyses showed that Arg-357, Pro-358, Gly-359, and Thr-362 are
 functionally important; Arg-357, conserved in almost all organisms, was
 identified as an indispensable residue.
DOC DONE!Abstract
BRCA1 is a breast and ovarian cancer-specific tumor suppressor that
 seems to be involved in transcription and DNA repair. Here we report
 that BRCA1 exhibits a bona fide ubiquitin (Ub) protein ligase (E3)
 activity, and that cancer-predisposing mutations within the BRCA1 RING
 domain abolish its Ub ligase activity. Furthermore, these mutants are
 unable to reverse γ-radiation hypersensitivity of BRCA1-null human
 breast cancer cells, HCC1937. Additionally, these mutations within the
 BRCA1 RING domain are not capable of restoring a G2 + M
 checkpoint in HCC1937 cells. These results establish a link between Ub
 protein ligase activity and γ-radiation protection function of BRCA1,
 and provide an explanation for why mutations within the BRCA1 RING
 domain predispose to cancer. Furthermore, we propose that the analysis
 of the Ub ligase activity of RING-domain mutations identified in
 patients may constitute an assay to predict predisposition to cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Certain HLA-B antigens have been associated with lack of
 progression to AIDS. HLA-B alleles can be divided into two mutually
 exclusive groups based on the expression of the molecular epitopes
 HLA-Bw4 and HLA-Bw6. Notably, in addition to its role in presenting
 viral peptides for immune recognition, the HLA-Bw4, but not HLA-Bw6,
 motif functions as a ligand for a natural killer cell inhibitory
 receptor (KIR). Here, we show that profound suppression of HIV-1
 viremia is significantly associated with homozygosity for HLA-B alleles
 that share the HLA-Bw4 epitope. Furthermore, homozygosity for HLA-Bw4
 alleles was also significantly associated with the ability to remain
 AIDS free and to maintain a normal CD4 T cell count in a second cohort
 of HIV-1-infected individuals with well defined dates of
 seroconversion. This association was independent of the presence of a
 mutation in CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) associated with resistance
 to HIV-1 infection, and it was independent of the presence of HLA
 alleles that could potentially confound the results. We conclude that
 homozygosity for HLA-Bw4-bearing B alleles is associated with a
 significant advantage and that the HLA-Bw4 motif is important in AIDS
 pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-2 and -15 belong to the four α-helix bundle family of
 cytokines and display a spectrum of overlapping immune functions
 because of shared signal transducing receptor components of the IL-2
 receptor complex. However, recent evidence suggests a nonredundant
 unique role for IL-15 in the establishment and perhaps maintenance of
 peripheral natural killer (NK) cell populations in vivo.
 To explore the contribution of locally released IL-15 on peripheral
 NK-cell-mediated innate immune responses, we generated a recombinant
 vaccinia virus that expresses IL-15 and evaluated the course of
 vaccinial disease in athymic nude mice. Coexpression of IL-15 resulted
 in the attenuation of virulence of vaccinia virus, and mice inoculated
 with 105 plaque-forming units or less resolved the
 infection successfully. In contrast, mice inoculated with a similar
 dose of the control vaccinia virus failed to eliminate the virus and
 died of generalized vaccinial disease. Enhanced expression of IL-12 and
 IFN-γ as well as induction of chemokines were evident in the mice
 inoculated with IL-15-expressing vaccinia virus in addition to an
 increase in NK cells in the spleen. However, in this model system, the
 degree of attenuation in viral virulence attained with coexpression of
 IL-15 was much less than that achieved with coexpression of IL-2,
 suggesting that the peripheral NK-cell-mediated events are more
 responsive to IL-2 than to IL-15.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dendritic cell (DC) differentiation from human CD34+
 hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) can be triggered in
 vitro by a combination of cytokines consisting of stem cell
 factor, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, and tumor
 necrosis factor α. The immune response regulatory cytokines, IL-4 and
 IL-13, promote DC maturation from HPCs, induce monocyte-DC
 transdifferentiation, and selectively up-regulate 15-lipoxygenase 1
 (15-LO-1) in blood monocytes. To gain more insight into
 cytokine-regulated eicosanoid production in DCs we studied the effects
 of IL-4/IL-13 on LO expression during DC differentiation. In the
 absence of IL-4, DCs that had been generated from CD34+
 HPCs in response to stem cell factor/granulocyte-macrophage
 colonystimulating factor/tumor necrosis factor α expressed
 high levels of 5-LO and 5-LO activating protein. However, a small
 subpopulation of eosinophil peroxidase+ (EOS-PX) cells
 significantly expressed 15-LO-1. Addition of IL-4 to differentiating
 DCs led to a marked and selective down-regulation of 5-LO but not of
 5-LO activating protein in DCs and in EOS-PX+ cells and,
 when added at the onset of DC differentiation, also prevented 5-LO
 up-regulation. Similar effects were observed during IL-4- or
 IL-13-dependent monocyte-DC transdifferentiation. Down-regulation of
 5-LO was accompanied by up-regulation of 15-LO-1, yielding
 15-LO-1+ 5-LO-deficient DCs. However, transforming growth
 factor β1 counteracted the IL-4-dependent inhibition of 5-LO but only
 minimally affected 15-LO-1 up-regulation. Thus, transforming growth
 factor β1 plus IL-4 yielded large mature DCs that coexpress both LOs.
 Localization of 5-LO in the nucleus and of 15-LO-1 in the cytosol was
 maintained at all cytokine combinations in all DC phenotypes and in
 EOS-PX+ cells. In the absence of IL-4, major eicosanoids of
 CD34+-derived DCs were 5S-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid
 (5S-HETE) and leukotriene B4, whereas the major eicosanoids
 of IL-4-treated DCs were 15S-HETE and 5S-15S-diHETE. These actions of
 IL-4/IL-13 reveal a paradigm of eicosanoid formation consisting of
 the inhibition of one and the stimulation of another LO in a single
 leukocyte lineage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
TRAIL (tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing
 ligand) is a recently identified member of the tumor necrosis factor
 cytokine superfamily. TRAIL has been shown to induce apoptosis
 in various tumor cell lines, whereas most primary cells seem to be
 resistant. These observations have raised considerable interest in the
 use of TRAIL in tumor therapy. Yet little is known about the
 physiological function of TRAIL. This is particularly the case in the
 immune system, where TRAIL has been suggested by some to be involved in
 target cell killing and lymphocyte death. We have developed a panel of
 mAbs and soluble proteins to address the role of TRAIL in lymphocyte
 development. These studies demonstrate activation-induced sensitization
 of thymocytes to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis and expression of the
 apoptosis-inducing TRAIL receptors. However, with the use of
 several model systems, our subsequent experiments rule out the
 possibility that TRAIL plays a major role in antigen-induced deletion
 of thymocytes. In contrast to thymocytes, there is no up-regulation of
 TRAIL receptors in peripheral T cells on activation, which remain
 resistant to TRAIL. Thus, susceptibility to TRAIL-induced
 apoptosis is controlled differently by central and peripheral T
 cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have previously described how T and natural killer (NK) lineage
 commitment proceeds from common T/NK progenitors (p-T/NK) in the
 murine fetal thymus (FT), with the use of a clonal assay system capable
 of discriminating p-T/NK from unipotent T or NK lineage-committed
 progenitors (p-T and p-NK, respectively). The molecular mechanisms
 controlling the commitment processes, however, are yet to be defined.
 In this study, we investigated the progenitor activity of FT cells from
 Id2−/− mice that exhibit defective NK cell development.
 In the Id2−/− FT, NK cells were greatly reduced, and a
 cell population that exclusively contains p-NK in the wild-type thymus
 was completely missing. Id2−/− FT progenitors were unable
 to differentiate into NK cells in IL-2-supplemented-FT organ culture.
 Single progenitor analysis demonstrated that all Id2−/−
 fetal thymic progenitors are destined for the T cell lineage, whereas
 progenitors for T/NK, T, and NK cell lineages were found in the
 control. Interestingly, the total progenitor number was similar between
 Id2−/− and Id2+/+ embryos analyzed.
 Expression of Id2 was correlated with p-NK activity. Our results
 suggest that Id2 is indispensable in thymic NK cell development, where
 it most probably restricts bipotent T/NK progenitors to the NK cell
 lineage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common chronic human genetic
 disorder whose hallmark is systemic iron overload. Homozygosity for
 a mutation in the MHC class I heavy chain  paralogue gene
 HFE has been found to be a primary cause of HH. However,
 many individuals homozygous for the defective allele of
 HFE do not develop iron overload, raising the
 possibility that genetic variation in modifier loci contributes to the
 HH phenotype. Mice deficient in the product of the
 β2-microglobulin (β2M) class I light chain
 fail to express HFE and other MHC class I family proteins, and they
 have been found to manifest many characteristics of the HH phenotype.
 To determine whether natural genetic variation plays a role in
 controlling iron overload, we performed classical genetic analysis of
 the iron-loading phenotype in β2M-deficient mice in the
 context of different genetic backgrounds. Strain background was found
 to be a major determinant in iron loading. Sex played a role that was
 less than that of strain background but still significant. Resistance
 and susceptibility to iron overload segregated as complex genetic
 traits in F1 and back-cross progeny. These results suggest
 the existence of naturally variant autosomal and Y chromosome-linked
 modifier loci that, in the context of mice genetically predisposed by
 virtue of a β2M deficiency, can profoundly influence the
 severity of iron loading. These results thus provide a genetic
 explanation for some of the variability of the HH phenotype.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), goblet cell metaplasia, and mucus
 overproduction are important features of bronchial asthma. To elucidate
 the molecular mechanisms behind these pulmonary pathologies, we
 examined for genes preferentially expressed in the lungs of a murine
 model of allergic asthma by using suppression subtractive hybridization
 (SSH). We identified a gene called gob-5 that had a
 selective expression pattern in the airway epithelium with AHR. Here,
 we show that gob-5, a member of the calcium-activated
 chloride channel family, is a key molecule in the induction of
 murine asthma. Intratracheal administration of adenovirus-expressing
 antisense gob-5 RNA into AHR-model mice efficiently
 suppressed the asthma phenotype, including AHR and mucus
 overproduction. In contrast, overexpression of gob-5 in
 airway epithelia by using an adenoviral vector exacerbated the asthma
 phenotype. Introduction of either gob-5 or
 hCLCA1, the human counterpart of gob-5,
 into the human mucoepidermoid cell line NCI-H292 induced mucus
 production as well as MUC5AC expression. Our results
 indicated that gob-5 may play a critical role in murine
 asthma, and its human counterpart hCLCA1 is therefore a
 potential target for asthma therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) has been used
 successfully in the treatment of cancer-related anemia. Clinical
 observations with several patients with multiple-myeloma treated with
 rHuEpo has shown, in addition to the improved quality of life, a longer
 survival than expected, considering the poor prognostic features of
 these patients. Based on these observations, we evaluated the potential
 biological effects of rHuEpo on the course of tumor progression by
 using murine myeloma models (MOPC-315-IgAλ2 and 5T33
 MM-IgG2b). Here we report that daily treatment of MOPC-315
 tumor-bearing mice with rHuEpo for several weeks induced complete tumor
 regression in 30–60% of mice. All regressors that were rechallenged
 with tumor cells rejected tumor growth, and this resistance was tumor
 specific. The Epo-triggered therapeutic effect was shown to be
 attributed to a T cell-mediated mechanism. Serum Ig analysis indicated
 a reduction in MOPC-315 λ light chain in regressor mice. Intradermal
 inoculation of 5T33 MM tumor cells followed by Epo treatment induced
 tumor regression in 60% of mice. The common clinical manifestation of
 myeloma bone disease in patients with multiple-myeloma was established
 in these myeloma models. Epo administration to these tumor-bearing mice
 markedly prolonged their survival and reduced mortality. Therefore,
 erythropoietin seems to act as an antitumor therapeutic agent in
 addition to its red blood cell-stimulating activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous reports indicate that the expression and/or activity of
 the protein-tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) LAR are increased in
 insulin-responsive tissues of obese, insulin-resistant humans and
 rodents, but it is not known whether these alterations contribute to
 the pathogenesis of insulin resistance. To address this question, we
 generated transgenic mice that overexpress human LAR, specifically in
 muscle, to levels comparable to those reported in insulin-resistant
 humans. In LAR-transgenic mice, fasting plasma insulin was increased
 2.5-fold compared with wild-type controls, whereas fasting glucose was
 normal. Whole-body glucose disposal and glucose uptake into muscle
 in vivo were reduced by 39–50%. Insulin injection
 resulted in normal tyrosyl phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and
 insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1) in muscle of transgenic mice.
 However, phosphorylation of IRS-2 was reduced by 62%, PI3′ kinase
 activity associated with phosphotyrosine, IRS-1, or IRS-2 was reduced
 by 34–57%, and association of p85α with both IRS proteins was
 reduced by 39–52%. Thus, overexpression of LAR in muscle causes
 whole-body insulin resistance, most likely due to dephosphorylation of
 specific regulatory phosphotyrosines on IRS proteins. Our data suggest
 that increased expression and/or activity of LAR or related PTPs in
 insulin target tissues of obese humans may contribute to the
 pathogenesis of insulin resistance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The blistering disorder, lethal junctional epidermolysis bullosa
 (JEB), can result from mutations in the LAMB3 gene,
 which encodes laminin 5 β3 (β3). Appropriate expression of LAMβ3
 in JEB skin tissue could potentially ameliorate the symptoms of the
 underlying disease. To explore the utility of this therapeutic
 approach, primary keratinocytes from six unrelated JEB patients were
 transduced with a retroviral vector encoding β3 and used to
 regenerate human skin on severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice.
 Tissue regenerated from β3-transduced JEB keratinocytes produced
 phenotypically normal skin characterized by sustained β3 expression
 and the formation of hemidesmosomes. Additionally, β3 gene transfer
 corrected the distribution of a number of important basement membrane
 zone proteins including BPAG2, integrins β4/β1, and
 laminins α3/γ2. Skin produced from β3-negative (β3[−]) JEB
 cells mimicked the hallmarks of the disease state and did not exhibit
 any of the aforementioned traits. Therefore, by effecting therapeutic
 gene transfer to β3-deficient primary keratinocytes, it is possible
 to produce healthy, normal skin tissue in vivo. These
 data support the utility of gene therapy for JEB and highlight the
 potential for gene delivery in the treatment of human genetic skin
 disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expression of CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5), the major
 coreceptor for HIV-1 cell entry, and its ligands (e.g., RANTES and
 MIP-1α) is widely regarded as central to the pathogenesis of HIV-1
 infection. By surveying nearly 3,000 HIV+ and HIV− individuals from
 worldwide populations for polymorphisms in the genes encoding RANTES,
 MIP-1α, and CCR5, we show that the evolutionary histories of human
 populations have had a significant impact on the distribution of
 variation in these genes, and that this may be responsible, in part,
 for the heterogeneous nature of the epidemiology of the HIV-1 pandemic.
 The varied distribution of RANTES haplotypes (AC, GC,
 and AG) associated with population-specific HIV-1 transmission- and
 disease-modifying effects is a striking example. Homozygosity for the
 AC haplotype was associated with an increased risk of acquiring HIV-1
 as well as accelerated disease progression in European Americans, but
 not in African Americans. Yet, the prevalence of the ancestral AC
 haplotype is high in individuals of African origin, but substantially
 lower in non-Africans. In a Japanese cohort, AG-containing
 RANTES haplotype pairs were associated with a delay in
 disease progression; however, we now show that their contribution to
 HIV-1 pathogenesis and epidemiology in other parts of the world is
 negligible because the AG haplotype is infrequent in non-Far East
 Asians. Thus, the varied distribution of RANTES,
 MIP-1α, and CCR5 haplotype pairs and
 their population-specific phenotypic effects on HIV-1 susceptibility
 and disease progression results in a complex pattern of biological
 determinants of HIV-1 epidemiology. These findings have important
 implications for the design, assessment, and implementation
 of effective HIV-1 intervention and prevention strategies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In vivo assessment of gene expression is desirable
 to obtain information on the extent and duration of transduction of
 tissue after gene delivery. We have developed an in
 vivo, potentially noninvasive, method for detecting virally
 mediated gene transfer to the liver. The method employs an adenoviral
 vector carrying the gene for the brain isozyme of murine creatine
 kinase (CK-B), an ATP-buffering enzyme expressed mainly in muscle and
 brain but absent from liver, kidney, and pancreas. Gene expression was
 monitored by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS)
 using the product of the CK enzymatic reaction, phosphocreatine, as an
 indicator of transfection. The vector was administered into nude mice
 by tail vein injection, and exogenous creatine was administered in the
 drinking water and by i.p. injection of 2% creatine solution before
 31P MRS examination, which was performed on surgically
 exposed livers. A phosphocreatine resonance was detected in livers of
 mice injected with the vector and was absent from livers of control
 animals. CK expression was confirmed in the injected animals by Western
 blot analysis, enzymatic assays, and immunofluorescence measurements.
 We conclude that the syngeneic enzyme CK can be used as a marker gene
 for in vivo monitoring of gene expression after virally
 mediated gene transfer to the liver.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hypertension is a leading cause of cardiovascular, cerebral, and
 renal disease morbidity and mortality. Here we show that disruption of
 the Cyp 4a14 gene causes hypertension, which is, like most human
 hypertension, more severe in males. Male Cyp 4a14 (−/−) mice show
 increases in plasma androgens, kidney Cyp 4a12 expression, and the
 formation of prohypertensive 20-hydroxyarachidonate. Castration
 normalizes the blood pressure of Cyp 4a14 (−/−) mice and minimizes
 Cyp 4a12 expression and arachidonate ω-hydroxylation. Androgen
 replacement restores hypertensive phenotype, Cyp 4a12 expression, and
 20-hydroxy-arachidonate formation. We conclude that the
 androgen-mediated regulation of Cyp 4a arachidonate monooxygenases is
 an important component of the renal mechanisms that control systemic
 blood pressures. These results provide direct evidence for a role of
 Cyp 4a isoforms in cardiovascular physiology, establish Cyp 4a14
 (−/−) mice as a monogenic model for the study of cause/effect
 relationships between blood pressure, sex hormones, and P450
 ω-hydroxylases, and suggest the human CYP 4A homologues as candidate
 genes for the analysis of the genetic and molecular basis of human
 hypertension.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Allelic association between pairs of loci is derived in terms
 of the association probability ρ as a function of recombination θ,
 effective population size N, linear systematic pressure
 v, and time t, predicting both
 ρrt, the decrease of association from
 founders and ρct, the increase by genetic
 drift, with ρt =
 ρrt + ρct.
 These results conform to the Malecot equation, with time replaced by
 distance on the genetic map, or on the physical map if recombination in
 the region is uniform. Earlier evidence suggested that ρ is less
 sensitive to variations in marker allele frequencies than alternative
 metrics for which there is no probability theory. This robustness is
 confirmed for six alternatives in eight samples. In none of these 48
 tests was the residual variance as small as for ρ. Overall,
 efficiency was less than 80% for all alternatives, and less than 30%
 for two of them. Efficiency of alternatives did not increase when
 information was estimated simultaneously. The swept radius within which
 substantial values of ρ are conserved lies between 385 and 893 kb,
 but deviation of parameters between measures is enormously significant.
 The large effort now being devoted to allelic association has little
 value unless the ρ metric with the strongest theoretical basis and
 least sensitivity to marker allele frequencies is used for mapping of
 marker association and localization of disease loci.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A member of a Plasmodium receptor family for
 erythrocyte invasion was identified on chromosome 13 from the
 Plasmodium falciparum genome sequence of the Sanger
 Centre (Cambridge, U.K.). The protein (named BAEBL) has homology to
 EBA-175, a P. falciparum receptor that binds
 specifically to sialic acid and the peptide backbone of glycophorin A
 on erythrocytes. Both EBA-175 and BAEBL localize to the micronemes,
 organelles at the invasive ends of the parasites that contain other
 members of the family. Like EBA-175, the erythrocyte receptor for BAEBL
 is destroyed by neuraminidase and trypsin, indicating that the
 erythrocyte receptor is a sialoglycoprotein. Its specificity, however,
 differs from that of EBA-175 in that BAEBL can bind to erythrocytes
 that lack glycophorin A, the receptor for EBA-175. It has reduced
 binding to erythrocytes with the Gerbich mutation found in another
 erythrocyte, sialoglycoprotein (glycophorin C/D). The interest in
 BAEBL's reduced binding to Gerbich erythrocytes derives from the high
 frequency of the Gerbich phenotype in some regions of Papua New Guinea
 where P. falciparum is hyperendemic.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mosquito midgut plays a central role in the sporogonic
 development of malaria parasites. We have found that polyclonal sera,
 produced against mosquito midguts, blocked the passage of
 Plasmodium falciparum ookinetes across the midgut,
 leading to a significant reduction of infections in mosquitoes.
 Anti-midgut mAbs were produced that display broad-spectrum activity,
 blocking parasite development of both P. falciparum and
 Plasmodium vivax parasites in five different species of
 mosquitoes. In addition to their parasite transmission-blocking
 activity, these mAbs also reduced mosquito survivorship and fecundity.
 These results reveal that mosquito midgut-based antibodies have the
 potential to reduce malaria transmission in a synergistic manner by
 lowering both vector competence, through transmission-blocking effects
 on parasite development, and vector abundance, by decreasing mosquito
 survivorship and egg laying capacity. Because the intervention can
 block transmission of different malaria parasite species in various
 species of mosquitoes, vaccines against such midgut receptors may block
 malaria transmission worldwide.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genetic variability at six polymorphic loci was examined within
 a global collection of 502 isolates of subgroup III, serogroup A
 Neisseria meningitidis. Nine “genoclouds” were
 identified, consisting of genotypes that were isolated repeatedly plus
 48 descendent genotypes that were isolated rarely. These genoclouds
 have caused three pandemic waves of disease since the mid-1960s, the
 most recent of which was imported from East Asia to Europe and Africa
 in the mid-1990s. Many of the genotypes are escape variants, resulting
 from positive selection that we attribute to herd immunity. Despite
 positive selection, most escape variants are less fit than their
 parents and are lost because of competition and bottlenecks during
 spread from country to country. Competition between fit genotypes
 results in dramatic changes in population composition over short time
 periods.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Predicted highly expressed (PHX) and putative alien genes
 determined by codon usages are characterized in the genome of
 Deinococcus radiodurans (strain R1). Deinococcus
 radiodurans (DEIRA) can survive very high doses of ionizing
 radiation that are lethal to virtually all other organisms. It has been
 argued that DEIRA is endowed with enhanced repair systems that provide
 protection and stability. However, predicted expression levels of DNA
 repair proteins with the exception of RecA tend to be low and do not
 distinguish DEIRA from other prokaryotes. In this paper, the capability
 of DEIRA to resist extreme doses of ionizing and UV radiation is
 attributed to an unusually high number of PHX chaperone/degradation,
 protease, and detoxification genes. Explicitly, compared with all
 current complete prokaryotic genomes, DEIRA contains the greatest
 number of PHX detoxification and protease proteins. Other sources of
 environmental protection against severe conditions of UV radiation,
 desiccation, and thermal effects for DEIRA are the several S-layer
 (surface structure) PHX proteins. The top PHX gene of DEIRA is the
 multifunctional tricarboxylic acid (TCA) gene aconitase, which, apart
 from its role in respiration, also alerts the cell to oxidative damage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A single retroviral protein, Gag, is sufficient for virus particle
 assembly. While Gag is capable of specifically packaging the genomic
 RNA into the particle, this RNA species is unnecessary for particle
 assembly in vivo. In vitro, nucleic acids
 profoundly enhance the efficiency of assembly by recombinant Gag
 proteins, apparently by acting as “scaffolding” in the particle.
 To address the participation of RNA in retrovirus assembly in
 vivo, we analyzed murine leukemia virus particles that lack
 genomic RNA because of a deletion in the packaging signal of the viral
 RNA. We found that these particles contain cellular mRNA in place of
 genomic RNA. This result was particularly evident when Gag was
 expressed by using a Semliki Forest virus-derived vector: under these
 conditions, the Semliki Forest virus vector-directed mRNA became very
 abundant in the cells and was readily identified in the retroviral
 virus-like particles. Furthermore, we found that the retroviral cores
 were disrupted by treatment with RNase. Taken together, the data
 strongly suggest that RNA is a structural element in retrovirus
 particles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two and a half millennia ago Pythagoras initiated the scientific
 study of the pitch of sounds; yet our understanding of the mechanisms
 of pitch perception remains incomplete. Physical models of pitch
 perception try to explain from elementary principles why certain
 physical characteristics of the stimulus lead to particular pitch
 sensations. There are two broad categories of pitch-perception models:
 place or spectral models consider that pitch is mainly related to the
 Fourier spectrum of the stimulus, whereas for periodicity or temporal
 models its characteristics in the time domain are more important.
 Current models from either class are usually computationally intensive,
 implementing a series of steps more or less supported by auditory
 physiology. However, the brain has to analyze and react in real time to
 an enormous amount of information from the ear and other senses. How is
 all this information efficiently represented and processed in the
 nervous system? A proposal of nonlinear and complex systems research is
 that dynamical attractors may form the basis of neural information
 processing. Because the auditory system is a complex and highly
 nonlinear dynamical system, it is natural to suppose that dynamical
 attractors may carry perceptual and functional meaning. Here we show
 that this idea, scarcely developed in current pitch models, can be
 successfully applied to pitch perception.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Because the retinal activity generated by a moving object cannot
 specify which of an infinite number of possible physical displacements
 underlies the stimulus, its real-world cause is necessarily uncertain.
 How, then, do observers respond successfully to sequences of images
 whose provenance is ambiguous? Here we explore the hypothesis that the
 visual system solves this problem by a probabilistic strategy in which
 perceived motion is generated entirely according to the relative
 frequency of occurrence of the physical sources of the stimulus. The
 merits of this concept were tested by comparing the directions and
 speeds of moving lines reported by subjects to the values determined by
 the probability distribution of all the possible physical displacements
 underlying the stimulus. The velocities reported by observers in a
 variety of stimulus contexts can be accounted for in this way.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have used a yeast two-hybrid approach to uncover protein
 interactions involving the D2-like subfamily of dopamine receptors.
 Using the third intracellular loop of the D2S and D3 dopamine receptors
 as bait to screen a human brain cDNA library, we identified filamin A
 (FLN-A) as a protein that interacts with both the D2 and D3 subtypes.
 The interaction with FLN-A was specific for the D2 and D3 receptors and
 was independently confirmed in pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation
 experiments. Deletion mapping localized the dopamine receptor–FLN-A
 interaction to the N-terminal segment of the D2 and D3 dopamine
 receptors and to repeat 19 of FLN-A. In cultures of dissociated rat
 striatum, FLN-A and D2 receptors colocalized throughout neuronal somata
 and processes as well as in astrocytes. Expression of D2 dopamine
 receptors in FLN-A-deficient M2 melanoma cells resulted in predominant
 intracellular localization of the D2 receptors, whereas in
 FLN-A-reconstituted cells, the D2 receptor was predominantly localized
 at the plasma membrane. These results suggest that FLN-A may be
 required for proper cell surface expression of the D2 dopamine
 receptors. Association of D2 and D3 dopamine receptors with FLN-A
 provides a mechanism whereby specific dopamine receptor subtypes may be
 functionally linked to downstream signaling components via the actin
 cytoskeleton.
DOC DONE!Abstract
cAMP induces a protein-synthesis-dependent late phase of long-term
 potentiation (LTP) at CA3–CA1 synapses in acute hippocampal slices.
 Herein we report cAMP-mediated LTP and long-term depression (LTD)
 at monosynaptic CA3–CA1 cell pairs in organotypic hippocampal
 slice cultures. After bath application of the membrane-permeable cAMP
 analog adenosine 3′,5′-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Sp isomer
 (Sp-cAMPS), synaptic transmission was enhanced for at least 2 h.
 Consistent with previous findings, the late phase of LTP requires
 activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A and protein synthesis.
 There is also an early phase of LTP induced by cAMP; the early phase
 depends on protein kinase A but, in contrast to the later phase, does
 not require protein synthesis. In addition, the cAMP-induced LTP is
 associated with a reduction of paired-pulse facilitation, suggesting
 that presynaptic modification may be involved. Furthermore, we found
 that Sp-cAMPS induced LTD in slices pretreated with picrotoxin, a
 γ-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor antagonist.
 This form of LTD depends on protein synthesis and protein
 phosphatase(s) and is accompanied by an increased ratio of failed
 synaptic transmission. These results suggest that GABAA
 receptors can modulate the effect of cAMP on synaptic transmission and
 thus determine the direction of synaptic plasticity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microarray technology represents a potentially powerful method for
 identifying cell type- and regionally restricted genes expressed in the
 brain. Here we have combined a microarray analysis of differential gene
 expression among five selected brain regions, including the amygdala,
 cerebellum, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, and periaqueductal gray, with
 in situ hybridization. On average, 0.3% of the 34,000
 genes interrogated were highly enriched in each of the five regions,
 relative to the others. In situ hybridization performed
 on a subset of amygdala-enriched genes confirmed in most cases the
 overall region-specificity predicted by the microarray data and
 identified additional sites of brain expression not examined on the
 microarrays. Strikingly, the majority of these genes exhibited
 boundaries of expression within the amygdala corresponding to
 cytoarchitectonically defined subnuclei. These results define a unique
 set of molecular markers for amygdaloid subnuclei and provide tools to
 genetically dissect their functional roles in different emotional
 behaviors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transient A-type K+ channels
 (IA) in neurons have been implicated in the
 delay of the spike onset and the decrease in the firing frequency. Here
 we have characterized biophysically and pharmacologically an
 IA current in lamprey locomotor network
 neurons that is activated by suprathreshold depolarization and is
 specifically blocked by catechol at 100 μM. The biophysical
 properties of this current are similar to the mammalian Kv3.4 channel.
 The role of the IA current both in single
 neuron firing and in locomotor pattern generation was analyzed. The
 IA current facilitates Na+
 channel recovery from inactivation and thus sustains repetitive firing.
 The role of the IA current in motor pattern
 generation was examined by applying catechol during fictive locomotion
 induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate. Blockade of
 this current increased the locomotor burst frequency and decreased the
 firing of motoneurons. Although an alternating motor pattern could
 still be generated, the cycle duration was less regular, with ventral
 roots bursts failing on some cycles. Our results thus provide insights
 into the contribution of a high-voltage-activated
 IA current to the regulation of firing
 properties and motor coordination in the lamprey spinal cord.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There is strong converging evidence that the intermediate and
 medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale of the chick brain is a
 memory store for information acquired through the learning process of
 imprinting. Neurons in this memory system come, through imprinting, to
 respond selectively to the imprinting stimulus (IS) neurons and so
 possess the properties of a memory trace. Therefore, the responses of
 the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale neurons
 to a visual imprinting stimulus were determined before, during, and
 after training. Of the total recorded population, the proportions of IS
 neurons shortly after each of two 1-h training sessions were
 significantly higher (approximately 2 times) than the pretraining
 proportion. However, ≈4.5 h later this proportion had fallen
 significantly and did not differ significantly from the pretraining
 proportion. Nevertheless, ≈21.5 h after the end of training, the
 proportion of IS neurons was at its highest (approximately 3 times the
 pretraining level). No significant fluctuations occurred in the
 proportions of neurons responding to the alternative stimulus. In
 addition, nonmonotonic changes were found commonly in the activity of
 230 of the neurons tracked individually from before training to shortly
 after the end of training. Thus the pattern of change in responsiveness
 both at the population level and at the level of individual neurons was
 highly nonmonotonic. Such a pattern of change is not consistent with
 simple models of memory based on synaptic strengthening to asymptote. A
 model is proposed that accounts for the changes in the population
 responses to the imprinting stimulus in terms of changes in the
 responses of individual neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ATP-gated P2X2 receptors are widely expressed in
 neurons, but the cellular effects of receptor activation are unclear.
 We engineered functional green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged
 P2X2 receptors and expressed them in embryonic hippocampal
 neurons, and report an approach to determining functional and total
 receptor pool sizes in living cells. ATP application to dendrites
 caused receptor redistribution and the formation of varicose hot spots
 of higher P2X2-GFP receptor density. Redistribution in
 dendrites was accompanied by an activation-dependent enhancement of the
 ATP-evoked current. Substate-specific mutant T18A P2X2-GFP
 receptors showed no redistribution or activation-dependent enhancement
 of the ATP-evoked current. Thus fluorescent P2X2-GFP
 receptors function normally, can be quantified, and reveal the dynamics
 of P2X2 receptor distribution on the seconds time scale.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Serine racemase is a brain-enriched enzyme that synthesizes
 d-serine, an endogenous modulator of the
 glycine site of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)
 receptors. We now report that serine racemase catalyzes an elimination
 reaction toward a nonphysiological substrate that provides a powerful
 tool to study its neurobiological role and will be useful to develop
 selective enzyme inhibitors. Serine racemase catalyzes robust
 elimination of l-serine O-sulfate that is
 500 times faster than the physiological racemization reaction,
 generating sulfate, ammonia, and pyruvate. This reaction provides the
 most simple and sensitive assay to detect the enzyme activity so far.
 We establish stable cell lines expressing serine racemase and show that
 serine racemase can also be converted into a powerful eliminase in
 cultured cells, while the racemization of l-serine is
 inhibited. Likewise, l-serine O-sulfate
 inhibits the synthesis of d-serine in primary astrocyte
 cultures. We conclude that the synthetic compound l-serine
 O-sulfate is a better substrate than
 l-serine as well as an inhibitor of d-serine
 synthesis. Inhibition of serine racemase provides a new strategy to
 selectively decrease NMDA receptor coactivation and may be useful in
 conditions in which overstimulation of NMDA receptors plays a
 pathological role.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cocaine blocks uptake by neuronal plasma membrane
 transporters for dopamine (DAT), serotonin (SERT), and norepinephrine
 (NET). Cocaine reward/reinforcement has been linked to actions at DAT
 or to blockade of SERT. However, knockouts of neither DAT, SERT, or NET
 reduce cocaine reward/reinforcement, leaving substantial uncertainty
 about cocaine's molecular mechanisms for reward. Conceivably, the
 molecular bases of cocaine reward might display sufficient redundancy
 that either DAT or SERT might be able to mediate cocaine reward in the
 other's absence. To test this hypothesis, we examined double knockout
 mice with deletions of one or both copies of both the DAT and SERT
 genes. These mice display viability, weight gain, histologic features,
 neurochemical parameters, and baseline behavioral features that allow
 tests of cocaine influences. Mice with even a single wild-type DAT gene
 copy and no SERT copies retain cocaine reward/reinforcement, as
 measured by conditioned place-preference testing. However, mice with no
 DAT and either no or one SERT gene copy display no preference for
 places where they have previously received cocaine. The serotonin
 dependence of cocaine reward in DAT knockout mice is thus confirmed by
 the elimination of cocaine place preference in DAT/SERT double
 knockout mice. These results provide insights into the brain molecular
 targets necessary for cocaine reward in knockout mice that develop in
 their absence and suggest novel strategies for anticocaine medication
 development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are dietary
 lipid sensors that regulate fatty acid and carbohydrate metabolism. The
 hypolipidemic effects of the fibrate drugs and the antidiabetic effects
 of the glitazone drugs in humans are due to activation of the α
 (NR1C1) and γ (NR1C3) subtypes, respectively. By contrast, the
 therapeutic potential of the δ (NR1C2) subtype is unknown, due in
 part to the lack of selective ligands. We have used combinatorial
 chemistry and structure-based drug design to develop a potent and
 subtype-selective PPARδ agonist, GW501516. In macrophages,
 fibroblasts, and intestinal cells, GW501516 increases expression of the
 reverse cholesterol transporter ATP-binding cassette A1 and induces
 apolipoprotein A1-specific cholesterol efflux. When dosed to
 insulin-resistant middle-aged obese rhesus monkeys, GW501516 causes a
 dramatic dose-dependent rise in serum high density lipoprotein
 cholesterol while lowering the levels of small-dense low density
 lipoprotein, fasting triglycerides, and fasting insulin. Our results
 suggest that PPARδ agonists may be effective drugs to increase
 reverse cholesterol transport and decrease cardiovascular disease
 associated with the metabolic syndrome X.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The chemotherapeutic drug Taxol is known to interact within a
 specific site on β-tubulin. Although the general location of the site
 has been defined by photoaffinity labeling and electron
 crystallography, the original data were insufficient to make an
 absolute determination of the bound conformation. We have now
 correlated the crystallographic density with analysis of Taxol
 conformations and have found the unique solution to be a T-shaped Taxol
 structure. This T-shaped or butterfly structure is optimized within the
 β-tubulin site and exhibits functional similarity to a portion of the
 B9-B10 loop in the α-tubulin subunit. The model provides structural
 rationalization for a sizeable body of Taxol structure–activity
 relationship data, including binding affinity, photoaffinity labeling,
 and acquired mutation in human cancer cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antipyretic analgesics, taken in large doses over a prolonged
 period, cause a specific form of kidney disease, characterized by
 papillary necrosis and interstitial scarring. Epidemiological evidence
 incriminated mixtures of drugs including aspirin (ASA), phenacetin, and
 caffeine. The mechanism of toxicity is unclear. We tested the effects
 of ASA, acetaminophen (APAF, the active metabolite of phenacetin),
 caffeine, and other related drugs individually and in combination on
 mouse inner medullary collecting duct cells (mIMCD3). The number of
 rapidly proliferating cells was reduced by ≈50% by 0.5 mM ASA,
 salicylic acid, or APAF. The drugs had less effect on confluent cells,
 which proliferate slowly. Thus, the slow in vivo
 turnover of IMCD cells could explain why clinical toxicity requires
 very high doses of these drugs over a very long period. Caffeine
 greatly potentiated the effect of acetaminophen, pointing to a
 potential danger of the mixture. Cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors,
 indomethacin and NS-398, did not reduce cell number except at
 concentrations greatly in excess of those that inhibit COX. Therefore,
 COX inhibition alone is not toxic. APAF arrests most cells in late
 G1 and S and produces a mixed form of cell death with both
 oncosis (swollen cells and nuclei) and apoptosis. APAF is known
 to inhibit the synthesis of DNA and cause chromosomal aberrations due
 to inhibition of ribonucleotide reductase. Such effects of APAF might
 account for renal medullary cell death in vivo and
 development of uroepithelial tumors from surviving cells that have
 chromosomal aberrations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
N-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels (VDCCs),
 predominantly localized in the nervous system, have been considered to
 play an essential role in a variety of neuronal functions, including
 neurotransmitter release at sympathetic nerve terminals. As a direct
 approach to elucidating the physiological significance of N-type VDCCs,
 we have generated mice genetically deficient in the α1B
 subunit (Cav 2.2). The α1B-deficient null
 mice, surprisingly, have a normal life span and are free from apparent
 behavioral defects. A complete and selective elimination of N-type
 currents, sensitive to ω-conotoxin GVIA, was observed without
 significant changes in the activity of other VDCC types in neuronal
 preparations of mutant mice. The baroreflex response, mediated by the
 sympathetic nervous system, was markedly reduced after bilateral
 carotid occlusion. In isolated left atria prepared from
 N-type-deficient mice, the positive inotropic responses to electrical
 sympathetic neuronal stimulation were dramatically decreased compared
 with those of normal mice. In contrast, parasympathetic nervous
 activity in the mutant mice was nearly identical to that of wild-type
 mice. Interestingly, the mutant mice showed sustained elevation of
 heart rate and blood pressure. These results provide direct evidence
 that N-type VDCCs are indispensable for the function of the sympathetic
 nervous system in circulatory regulation and indicate that N-type
 VDCC-deficient mice will be a useful model for studying disorders
 attributable to sympathetic nerve dysfunction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)
 protein has the ability to function as both a chloride channel and a
 channel regulator. The loss of these functions explains many of the
 manifestations of the cystic fibrosis disease (CF), including lung and
 pancreatic failure, meconium ileus, and male infertility. CFTR has
 previously been implicated in the cell regulatory volume decrease (RVD)
 response after hypotonic shocks in murine small intestine crypts, an
 effect associated to the dysfunction of an unknown swelling-activated
 potassium conductance. In the present study, we investigated the RVD
 response in human tracheal CF epithelium and the nature of the
 volume-sensitive potassium channel affected. Neither the human tracheal
 cell line CFT1, expressing the mutant CFTR-ΔF508 gene, nor the
 isogenic vector control line CFT1-LC3, engineered to express the βgal
 gene, showed RVD. On the other hand, the cell line CFT1-LCFSN,
 engineered to express the wild-type CFTR gene, presented a full RVD.
 Patch-clamp studies of swelling-activated potassium currents in the
 three cell lines revealed that all of them possess a potassium current
 with the biophysical and pharmacological fingerprints of the
 intermediate conductance Ca2+-dependent potassium channel
 (IK, also known as KCNN4). However, only CFT1-LCFSN cells showed an
 increase in IK currents in response to hypotonic challenges. Although
 the identification of the molecular mechanism relating CFTR to the hIK
 channel remains to be solved, these data offer new evidence on the
 complex integration of CFTR in the cells where it is expressed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a heritable disorder that
 predisposes to sudden cardiac death. LQTS is caused by mutations in ion
 channel genes including HERG and KCNE1, but the precise mechanisms
 remain unclear. To clarify this situation we injected adenoviral
 vectors expressing wild-type or LQT mutants of HERG and KCNE1 into
 guinea pig myocardium. End points at 48–72 h included
 electrophysiology in isolated myocytes and electrocardiography
 in vivo. HERG increased the rapid component,
 IKr, of the delayed rectifier current,
 thereby accelerating repolarization, increasing refractoriness, and
 diminishing beat-to-beat action potential variability. Conversely,
 HERG-G628S suppressed IKr without
 significantly delaying repolarization. Nevertheless, HERG-G628S
 abbreviated refractoriness and increased beat-to-beat variability,
 leading to early afterdepolarizations (EADs). KCNE1 increased the slow
 component of the delayed rectifier, IKs,
 without clear phenotypic sequelae. In contrast, KCNE1-D76N suppressed
 IKs and markedly slowed repolarization,
 leading to frequent EADs and electrocardiographic QT prolongation.
 Thus, the two genes predispose to sudden death by distinct mechanisms:
 the KCNE1 mutant flagrantly undermines cardiac repolarization, and
 HERG-G628S subtly facilitates the genesis and propagation of premature
 beats. Our ability to produce electrocardiographic long QT in
 vivo with a clinical KCNE1 mutation demonstrates the utility of
 somatic gene transfer in creating genotype-specific disease models.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Wild-type Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cells shifted
 from high concentrations (5%) of CO2 to low, ambient
 levels (0.03%) rapidly increase transcription of mRNAs from several
 CO2-responsive genes. Simultaneously, they develop a
 functional carbon concentrating mechanism that allows the cells to
 greatly increase internal levels of CO2 and
 HCO. The cia5 mutant is defective in
 all of these phenotypes. A newly isolated gene, designated
 Cia5, restores transformed cia5 cells to
 the phenotype of wild-type cells. The 6,481-bp gene produces a 5.1-kb
 mRNA that is present constitutively in light in high and low
 CO2 both in wild-type cells and the cia5
 mutant. It encodes a protein that has features of a putative
 transcription factor and that, likewise, is present constitutively in
 low and high CO2 conditions. Complementation of
 cia5 can be achieved with a truncated
 Cia5 gene that is missing the coding information for 54
 C-terminal amino acids. Unlike wild-type cells or cia5
 mutants transformed with an intact Cia5 gene,
 cia5 mutants complemented with the truncated gene
 exhibit constitutive synthesis of mRNAs from CO2-responsive
 genes in light under both high and low CO2 conditions.
 These discoveries suggest that posttranslational changes to the
 C-terminal domain control the ability of CIA5 to act as an inducer and
 directly or indirectly control transcription of
 CO2-responsive genes. Thus, CIA5 appears to be a master
 regulator of the carbon concentrating mechanism and is intimately
 involved in the signal transduction mechanism that senses and allows
 immediate responses to fluctuations in environmental CO2
 and HCO concentrations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aquatic photosynthetic organisms, including the green alga
 Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, induce a set of genes for a
 carbon-concentrating mechanism (CCM) to acclimate to
 CO2-limiting conditions. This acclimation is modulated by
 some mechanisms in the cell to sense CO2 availability.
 Previously, a high-CO2-requiring mutant C16 defective in an
 induction of the CCM was isolated from C. reinhardtii by
 gene tagging. By using this pleiotropic mutant, we isolated a nuclear
 regulatory gene, Ccm1, encoding a 699-aa hydrophilic
 protein with a putative zinc-finger motif in its N-terminal region and
 a Gln repeat characteristic of transcriptional activators. Introduction
 of Ccm1 into this mutant restored an active carbon
 transport through the CCM, development of a pyrenoid structure in the
 chloroplast, and induction of a set of CCM-related genes. That a
 5,128-base Ccm1 transcript and also the translation
 product of 76 kDa were detected in both high- and low-CO2
 conditions suggests that CCM1 might be modified posttranslationally.
 These data indicate that Ccm1 is essential to control
 the induction of CCM by sensing CO2 availability in
 Chlamydomonas cells. In addition, complementation assay
 and identification of the mutation site of another pleiotropic mutant,
 cia5, revealed that His-54 within the putative
 zinc-finger motif of the CCM1 is crucial to its regulatory function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ricinosome (synonym, precursor protease vesicle) is a novel
 organelle, found so far exclusively in plant cells. Electron
 microscopic studies suggest that it buds off from the endoplasmic
 reticulum in senescing tissues. Biochemical support for this unusual
 origin now comes from the composition of the purified organelle, which
 contains large amounts of a 45-kDa cysteine endoprotease precursor with
 a C-terminal KDEL motif and the endoplasmic reticulum lumen residents
 BiP (binding protein) and protein disulfide isomerase. Western blot
 analysis, peptide sequencing, and mass spectrometry demonstrate
 retention of KDEL in the protease proform. Acidification of isolated
 ricinosomes causes castor bean cysteine endopeptidase activation, with
 cleavage of the N-terminal propeptide and the C-terminal KDEL motif. We
 propose that ricinosomes accumulate during senescence by programmed
 cell death and are activated by release of protons from acidic
 vacuoles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Humans are consciously aware of some memories and can make verbal
 reports about these memories. Other memories cannot be brought to
 consciousness, even though they influence behavior. This conspicuous
 difference in access to memories is central in taxonomies of human
 memory systems but has been difficult to document in animal studies,
 suggesting that some forms of memory may be unique to humans. Here I
 show that rhesus macaque monkeys can report the presence or absence of
 memory. Although it is probably impossible to document subjective,
 conscious properties of memory in nonverbal animals, this result
 objectively demonstrates an important functional parallel with human
 conscious memory. Animals able to discern the presence and absence of
 memory should improve accuracy if allowed to decline memory tests when
 they have forgotten, and should decline tests most frequently when
 memory is attenuated experimentally. One of two monkeys examined
 unequivocally met these criteria under all test conditions, whereas the
 second monkey met them in all but one case. Probe tests were used to
 rule out “cueing” by a wide variety of environmental and
 behavioral stimuli, leaving detection of the absence of memory
 per se as the most likely mechanism underlying the
 monkeys' abilities to selectively decline memory tests when they had
 forgotten.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Whenever we open our eyes, we are confronted with an overwhelming
 amount of visual information. Covert attention allows us to select
 visual information at a cued location, without eye movements, and to
 grant such information priority in processing. Covert attention can be
 voluntarily allocated, to a given location according to goals, or
 involuntarily allocated, in a reflexive manner, to a cue that appears
 suddenly in the visual field. Covert attention improves
 discriminability in a wide variety of visual tasks. An important
 unresolved issue is whether covert attention can also speed the rate at
 which information is processed. To address this issue, it is necessary
 to obtain conjoint measures of the effects of covert attention on
 discriminability and rate of information processing. We used the
 response-signal speed-accuracy tradeoff (SAT) procedure to derive
 measures of how cueing a target location affects speed and accuracy in
 a visual search task. Here, we show that covert attention not only
 improves discriminability but also accelerates the rate
 of information processing.
DOC DONE!AbstractThe Academy has elected 72 new members and 15 foreign associates
 from 10 countries in recognition of their distinguished and
 continuing achievements in original research. The election
 was held during the business session of the 138th annual
 meeting of the Academy. Election to membership in the
 Academy is considered one of the highest honors that can be
 accorded a U.S. scientist or engineer. Foreign associates
 are non-voting members of the Academy, with citizenship
 outside of the United States.DOC DONE!AbstractThe biotic crisis overtaking our planet is likely to precipitate a
 major extinction of species. That much is well known. Not so well known
 but probably more significant in the long term is that the crisis will
 surely disrupt and deplete certain basic processes of evolution, with
 consequences likely to persist for millions of years. Distinctive
 features of future evolution could include a homogenization of biotas,
 a proliferation of opportunistic species, a pest-and-weed ecology, an
 outburst of speciation among taxa that prosper in human-dominated
 ecosystems, a decline of biodisparity, an end to the speciation of
 large vertebrates, the depletion of “evolutionary powerhouses” in
 the tropics, and unpredictable emergent novelties. Despite this
 likelihood, we have only a rudimentary understanding of how we are
 altering the evolutionary future. As a result of our ignorance,
 conservation policies fail to reflect long-term evolutionary aspects of
 biodiversity loss.DOC DONE!AbstractMass extinctions have played many evolutionary roles, involving
 differential survivorship or selectivity of taxa and traits, the
 disruption or preservation of evolutionary trends and ecosystem
 organization, and the promotion of taxonomic and morphological
 diversifications—often along unexpected trajectories—after the
 destruction or marginalization of once-dominant clades. The fossil
 record suggests that survivorship during mass extinctions is not
 strictly random, but it often fails to coincide with factors promoting
 survival during times of low extinction intensity. Although of very
 serious concern, present-day extinctions have not yet achieved the
 intensities seen in the Big Five mass extinctions of the geologic past,
 which each removed ≥50% of the subset of relatively abundant marine
 invertebrate genera. The best comparisons for predictive purposes
 therefore will involve factors such as differential extinction
 intensities among regions, clades, and functional groups, rules
 governing postextinction biotic interchanges and evolutionary dynamics,
 and analyses of the factors that cause taxa and evolutionary trends to
 continue unabated, to suffer setbacks but resume along the same
 trajectory, to survive only to fall into a marginal role or disappear
 (“dead clade walking”), or to undergo a burst of diversification.
 These issues need to be addressed in a spatially explicit framework,
 because the fossil record suggests regional differences in
 postextinction diversification dynamics and biotic interchanges.
 Postextinction diversifications lag far behind the initial taxonomic
 and morphological impoverishment and homogenization; they do not simply
 reoccupy vacated adaptive peaks, but explore opportunities as opened
 and constrained by intrinsic biotic factors and the ecological and
 evolutionary context of the radiation.DOC DONE!AbstractAlthough mass extinctions probably account for the disappearance of
 less than 5% of all extinct species, the evolutionary opportunities
 they have created have had a disproportionate effect on the history of
 life. Theoretical considerations and simulations have suggested that
 the empty niches created by a mass extinction should refill rapidly
 after extinction ameliorates. Under logistic models, this biotic
 rebound should be exponential, slowing as the environmental carrying
 capacity is approached. Empirical studies reveal a more complex
 dynamic, including positive feedback and an exponential growth phase
 during recoveries. Far from a model of refilling ecospace, mass
 extinctions appear to cause a collapse of ecospace, which must be
 rebuilt during recovery. Other generalities include the absence of a
 clear correlation between the magnitude of extinction and the pace of
 recovery or the resulting ecological and evolutionary disruption the
 presence of a survival interval, with few originations, immediately
 after an extinction and preceding the recovery phase, and the presence
 of many lineages that persist through an extinction event only to
 disappear during the subsequent recovery. Several recoveries include
 numerous missing lineages, groups that are found before the extinction,
 then latter in the recovery, but are missing during the initial
 survival–recovery phase. The limited biogeographic studies of
 recoveries suggest considerable variability between regions.DOC DONE!AbstractHuman activities have greatly reduced the amount of the earth's
 area available to wild species. As the area they have left declines, so
 will their rates of speciation. This loss of speciation will occur for
 two reasons: species with larger geographical ranges speciate faster;
 and loss of area drives up extinction rates, thus reducing the number
 of species available for speciation. Theory predicts steady states in
 species diversity, and fossils suggest that these have typified life
 for most of the past 500 million years. Modern and fossil evidence
 indicates that, at the scale of the whole earth and its major
 biogeographical provinces, those steady states respond linearly, or
 nearly so, to available area. Hence, a loss of x% of
 area will produce a loss of about x% of species. Local
 samples of habitats merely echo the diversity available in the whole
 province of which they are a part. So, conservation tactics that rely
 on remnant patches to preserve diversity cannot succeed for long.
 Instead, diversity will decay to a depauperate steady state in two
 phases. The first will involve deterministic extinctions, reflecting
 the loss of all areas in which a species can ordinarily sustain its
 demographics. The second will be stochastic, reflecting accidents
 brought on by global warming, new diseases, and commingling the species
 of the separate bio-provinces. A new kind of conservation effort,
 reconciliation ecology, can avoid this decay. Reconciliation ecology
 discovers how to modify and diversify anthropogenic habitats so that
 they harbor a wide variety of species. It develops management
 techniques that allow humans to share their geographical range with
 wild species.DOC DONE!AbstractHumans transformed Western Atlantic coastal marine ecosystems
 before modern ecological investigations began. Paleoecological,
 archeological, and historical reconstructions demonstrate incredible
 losses of large vertebrates and oysters from the entire Atlantic coast.
 Untold millions of large fishes, sharks, sea turtles, and manatees were
 removed from the Caribbean in the 17th to 19th centuries. Recent
 collapses of reef corals and seagrasses are due ultimately to losses of
 these large consumers as much as to more recent changes in climate,
 eutrophication, or outbreaks of disease. Overfishing in the 19th
 century reduced vast beds of oysters in Chesapeake Bay and other
 estuaries to a few percent of pristine abundances and promoted
 eutrophication. Mechanized harvesting of bottom fishes like cod set off
 a series of trophic cascades that eliminated kelp forests and then
 brought them back again as fishers fished their way down food webs to
 small invertebrates. Lastly, but most pervasively, mechanized
 harvesting of the entire continental shelf decimated large, long-lived
 fishes and destroyed three-dimensional habitats built up by sessile
 corals, bryozoans, and sponges. The universal pattern of losses
 demonstrates that no coastal ecosystem is pristine and few wild
 fisheries are sustainable along the entire Western Atlantic coast.
 Reconstructions of ecosystems lost only a century or two ago
 demonstrate attainable goals of establishing large and effective marine
 reserves if society is willing to pay the costs. Historical
 reconstructions provide a new scientific framework for manipulative
 experiments at the ecosystem scale to explore the feasibility and
 benefits of protection of our living coastal resources.DOC DONE!AbstractCoral reefs, with their millions of species, have changed
 profoundly because of the effects of people, and will continue to do so
 for the foreseeable future. Reefs are subject to many of the same
 processes that affect other human-dominated ecosystems, but some
 special features merit emphasis: (i) Many dominant reef
 builders spawn eggs and sperm into the water column, where
 fertilization occurs. They are thus particularly vulnerable to Allee
 effects, including potential extinction associated with chronic
 reproductive failure. (ii) The corals likely to be most
 resistant to the effects of habitat degradation are small, short-lived
 “weedy” corals that have limited dispersal capabilities at the
 larval stage. Habitat degradation, together with habitat fragmentation,
 will therefore lead to the establishment of genetically isolated
 clusters of inbreeding corals. (iii) Increases in
 average sea temperatures by as little as 1°C, a likely result of
 global climate change, can cause coral “bleaching” (the breakdown
 of coral–algal symbiosis), changes in symbiont communities, and coral
 death. (iv) The activities of people near reefs increase
 both fishing pressure and nutrient inputs. In general, these processes
 favor more rapidly growing competitors, often fleshy seaweeds, and may
 also result in explosions of predator populations. (v)
 Combinations of stress appear to be associated with threshold responses
 and ecological surprises, including devastating pathogen outbreaks.
 (vi) The fossil record suggests that corals as a group
 are more likely to suffer extinctions than some of the groups that
 associate with them, whose habitat requirements may be less stringent.DOC DONE!AbstractHumans affect biodiversity at the genetic, species, community, and
 ecosystem levels. This impact on genetic diversity is critical, because
 genetic diversity is the raw material of evolutionary change, including
 adaptation and speciation. Two forces affecting genetic variation are
 genetic drift (which decreases genetic variation within but increases
 genetic differentiation among local populations) and gene flow (which
 increases variation within but decreases differentiation among local
 populations). Humans activities often augment drift and diminish gene
 flow for many species, which reduces genetic variation in local
 populations and prevents the spread of adaptive complexes outside their
 population of origin, thereby disrupting adaptive processes both
 locally and globally within a species. These impacts are illustrated
 with collared lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) in the
 Missouri Ozarks. Forest fire suppression has reduced habitat and
 disrupted gene flow in this lizard, thereby altering the balance toward
 drift and away from gene flow. This balance can be restored by managed
 landscape burns. Some have argued that, although human-induced
 fragmentation disrupts adaptation, it will also ultimately produce new
 species through founder effects. However, population genetic theory and
 experiments predict that most fragmentation events caused by human
 activities will facilitate not speciation, but local extinction.
 Founder events have played an important role in the macroevolution of
 certain groups, but only when ecological opportunities are expanding
 rather than contracting. The general impact of human activities on
 genetic diversity disrupts or diminishes the capacity for adaptation,
 speciation, and macroevolutionary change. This impact will ultimately
 diminish biodiversity at all levels.DOC DONE!AbstractHuman-caused environmental changes are creating regional
 combinations of environmental conditions that, within the next 50 to
 100 years, may fall outside the envelope within which many of the
 terrestrial plants of a region evolved. These environmental
 modifications might become a greater cause of global species extinction
 than direct habitat destruction. The environmental constraints
 undergoing human modification include levels of soil nitrogen,
 phosphorus, calcium and pH, atmospheric CO2, herbivore,
 pathogen, and predator densities, disturbance regimes, and climate.
 Extinction would occur because the physiologies, morphologies, and life
 histories of plants limit each species to being a superior competitor
 for a particular combination of environmental constraints. Changes in
 these constraints would favor a few species that would competitively
 displace many other species from a region. In the long-term, the
 “weedy” taxa that became the dominants of the novel conditions
 imposed by global change should become the progenitors of a series of
 new species that are progressively less weedy and better adapted to the
 new conditions. The relative importance of evolutionary versus
 community ecology responses to global environmental change would depend
 on the extent of regional and local recruitment limitation, and on
 whether the suite of human-imposed constraints were novel just
 regionally or on continental or global scales.DOC DONE!AbstractIn the beginning of modern plant biology, plant biologists
 followed a simple model for their science. This model included
 important branches of plant biology known then. Of course, plants had
 to be identified and classified first. Thus, there was much work on
 taxonomy, genetics, and physiology. Ecology and evolution were
 approached implicitly, rather than explicitly, through paleobotany,
 taxonomy, morphology, and historical geography. However, the burgeoning
 explosion of knowledge and great advances in molecular biology, e.g.,
 to the extent that genes for specific traits can be added (or deleted)
 at will, have created a revolution in the study of plants. Genomics in
 agriculture has made it possible to address many important issues in
 crop production by the identification and manipulation of genes in crop
 plants. The current model of plant study differs from the previous one
 in that it places greater emphasis on developmental controls and on
 evolution by differential fitness. In a rapidly changing environment,
 the current model also explicitly considers the phenotypic variation
 among individuals on which selection operates. These are calls for the
 unity of science. In fact, the proponents of “Complexity Theory”
 think there are common algorithms describing all levels of
 organization, from atoms all the way to the structure of the universe,
 and that when these are discovered, the issue of scaling will be
 greatly simplified! Plant biology must seriously contribute to, among
 other things, meeting the nutritional needs of the human population.
 This challenge constitutes a key part of the backdrop against which
 future evolution will occur. Genetic engineering technologies are and
 will continue to be an important component of agriculture; however, we
 must consider the evolutionary implications of these new technologies.
 Meeting these demands requires drastic changes in the undergraduate
 curriculum. Students of biology should be trained in molecular,
 cellular, organismal, and ecosystem biology, including all living
 organisms.DOC DONE!AbstractSince the Age of Exploration began, there has been a drastic
 breaching of biogeographic barriers that previously had isolated the
 continental biotas for millions of years. We explore the nature of
 these recent biotic exchanges and their consequences on evolutionary
 processes. The direct evidence of evolutionary consequences of the
 biotic rearrangements is of variable quality, but the results of
 trajectories are becoming clear as the number of studies increases.
 There are examples of invasive species altering the evolutionary
 pathway of native species by competitive exclusion, niche displacement,
 hybridization, introgression, predation, and ultimately extinction.
 Invaders themselves evolve in response to their interactions with
 natives, as well as in response to the new abiotic environment.
 Flexibility in behavior, and mutualistic interactions, can aid in the
 success of invaders in their new environment.DOC DONE!AbstractSystematic conservation planning is a branch of conservation
 biology that seeks to identify spatially explicit options for the
 preservation of biodiversity. Alternative systems of conservation areas
 are predictions about effective ways of promoting the persistence of
 biodiversity; therefore, they should consider not only biodiversity
 pattern but also the ecological and evolutionary processes that
 maintain and generate species. Most research and application, however,
 has focused on pattern representation only. This paper outlines the
 development of a conservation system designed to preserve biodiversity
 pattern and process in the context of a rapidly changing environment.
 The study area is the Cape Floristic Region (CFR), a biodiversity
 hotspot of global significance, located in southwestern Africa. This
 region has experienced rapid (post-Pliocene) ecological diversification
 of many plant lineages; there are numerous genera with large clusters
 of closely related species (flocks) that have subdivided habitats at a
 very fine scale. The challenge is to design conservation systems that
 will preserve both the pattern of large numbers of species and various
 natural processes, including the potential for lineage turnover. We
 outline an approach for designing a system of conservation areas to
 incorporate the spatial components of the evolutionary processes that
 maintain and generate biodiversity in the CFR. We discuss the
 difficulty of assessing the requirements for pattern versus process
 representation in the face of ongoing threats to biodiversity, the
 difficulty of testing the predictions of alternative conservation
 systems, and the widespread need in conservation planning to
 incorporate and set targets for the spatial components (or surrogates)
 of processes.DOC DONE!AbstractOur global impact is finally receiving the scientific attention it
 deserves. The outcome will largely determine the future course of
 evolution. Human-modified ecosystems are shaped by our activities and
 their side effects. They share a common set of traits including
 simplified food webs, landscape homogenization, and high nutrient and
 energy inputs. Ecosystem simplification is the ecological hallmark of
 humanity and the reason for our evolutionary success. However, the side
 effects of our profligacy and poor resource practices are now so
 pervasive as to threaten our future no less than that of biological
 diversity itself. This article looks at human impact on ecosystems and
 the consequences for evolution. It concludes that future evolution will
 be shaped by our awareness of the global threats, our willingness to
 take action, and our ability to do so. Our ability is presently
 hampered by several factors, including the poor state of ecosystem and
 planetary knowledge, ignorance of human impact, lack of guidelines for
 sustainability, and a paucity of good policies, practices, and
 incentives for adopting those guidelines in daily life. Conservation
 philosophy, science, and practice must be framed against the reality of
 human-dominated ecosystems, rather than the separation of humanity
 and nature underlying the modern conservation movement. The steps
 scientists can take to imbed science in conservation and conservation
 in the societal process affecting the future of ecosystems and human
 well-being are discussed.DOC DONE!AbstractThe current massive degradation of habitat and extinction of
 species is taking place on a catastrophically short timescale, and
 their effects will fundamentally reset the future evolution of the
 planet's biota. The fossil record suggests that recovery of global
 ecosystems has required millions or even tens of millions of years.
 Thus, intervention by humans, the very agents of the current
 environmental crisis, is required for any possibility of short-term
 recovery or maintenance of the biota. Many current recovery efforts
 have deficiencies, including insufficient information on the diversity
 and distribution of species, ecological processes, and magnitude and
 interaction of threats to biodiversity (pollution, overharvesting,
 climate change, disruption of biogeochemical cycles, introduced or
 invasive species, habitat loss and fragmentation through land use,
 disruption of community structure in habitats, and others). A much
 greater and more urgently applied investment to address these
 deficiencies is obviously warranted. Conservation and restoration in
 human-dominated ecosystems must strengthen connections between human
 activities, such as agricultural or harvesting practices, and relevant
 research generated in the biological, earth, and atmospheric sciences.
 Certain threats to biodiversity require intensive international
 cooperation and input from the scientific community to mitigate their
 harmful effects, including climate change and alteration of global
 biogeochemical cycles. In a world already transformed by human
 activity, the connection between humans and the ecosystems they depend
 on must frame any strategy for the recovery of the biota.DOC DONE!AbstractAlthough panel discussants disagreed whether the biodiversity
 crisis constitutes a mass extinction event, all agreed that current
 extinction rates are 50–500 times background and are increasing and
 that the consequences for the future evolution of life are serious. In
 response to the on-going rapid decline of biomes and homogenization of
 biotas, the panelists predicted changes in species geographic ranges,
 genetic risks of extinction, genetic assimilation, natural selection,
 mutation rates, the shortening of food chains, the increase in
 nutrient-enriched niches permitting the ascendancy of microbes, and the
 differential survival of ecological generalists. Rates of evolutionary
 processes will change in different groups, and speciation in the larger
 vertebrates is essentially over. Action taken over the next few decades
 will determine how impoverished the biosphere will be in 1,000 years
 when many species will suffer reduced evolvability and require
 interventionist genetic and ecological management. Whether the biota
 will continue to provide the dependable ecological services humans take
 for granted is less clear. The discussants offered recommendations,
 including two of paramount importance (concerning human populations and
 education), seven identifying specific scientific activities to better
 equip us for stewardship of the processes of evolution, and one
 suggesting that such stewardship is now our responsibility. The
 ultimate test of evolutionary biology as a science is not whether it
 solves the riddles of the past but rather whether it enables us to
 manage the future of the biosphere. Our inability to make clearer
 predictions about the future of evolution has serious consequences for
 both biodiversity and humanity.DOC DONE!AbstractBiologists should help to guide a process of cultural evolution in
 which society determines how much effort, if any, is ethically required
 to preserve options in biological evolution. Evolutionists,
 conservation biologists, and ecologists should be doing more research
 to determine actions that would best help to avoid foreclosing
 evolutionary options.DOC DONE!AbstractClassical molecular dynamics is applied to the rotation of a
 dipolar molecular rotor mounted on a square grid and driven by rotating
 electric field E(ν) at T ≃ 150
 K. The rotor is a complex of Re with two substituted
 o-phenanthrolines, one positively and one negatively
 charged, attached to an axial position of Rh in a
 [2]staffanedicarboxylate grid through
 2-(3-cyanobicyclo[1.1.1]pent-1-yl)malonic dialdehyde. Four regimes
 are characterized by a, the average lag per turn:
 (i) synchronous (a <
 1/e) at E(ν) =
 |E(ν)| > Ec(ν)
 [Ec(ν) is the critical field strength],
 (ii) asynchronous (1/e <
 a < 1) at Ec(ν)
 > E(ν) >
 Ebo(ν) >
 kT/μ, [Ebo(ν)
 is the break-off field strength], (iii) random driven
 (a ≃ 1) at
 Ebo(ν) > E(ν)
 > kT/μ, and (iv) random
 thermal (a ≃ 1) at
 kT/μ > E(ν). A fifth
 regime, (v) strongly hindered, W >
 kT, Eμ, (W is the
 rotational barrier), has not been examined. We find
 Ebo(ν)/kVcm−1 ≃
 (kT/μ)/kVcm−1 +
 0.13(ν/GHz)1.9 and
 Ec(ν)/kVcm−1 ≃
 (2.3kT/μ)/kVcm−1 +
 0.87(ν/GHz)1.6. For ν > 40 GHz, the rotor
 behaves as a macroscopic body with a friction constant proportional to
 frequency, η/eVps ≃ 1.14 ν/THz, and for ν < 20
 GHz, it exhibits a uniquely molecular behavior.DOC DONE!AbstractIntramolecular chain diffusion is an elementary process in the
 conformational fluctuations of the DNA hairpin-loop. We have studied
 the temperature and viscosity dependence of a model DNA hairpin-loop by
 FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) fluctuation spectroscopy
 (FRETfs). Apparent thermodynamic parameters were obtained by analyzing
 the correlation amplitude through a two-state model and are consistent
 with steady-state fluorescence measurements. The kinetics of closing
 the loop show non-Arrhenius behavior, in agreement with theoretical
 prediction and other experimental measurements on peptide folding. The
 fluctuation rates show a fractional power dependence (β = 0.83)
 on the solution viscosity. A much slower intrachain diffusion
 coefficient in comparison to that of polypeptides was derived based on
 the first passage time theory of SSS [Szabo, A., Schulten, K. &
 Schulten, Z. (1980) J. Chem. Phys. 72,
 4350–4357], suggesting that intrachain interactions, especially
 stacking interaction in the loop, might increase the roughness of the
 free energy surface of the DNA hairpin-loop.DOC DONE!AbstractThe emergence of biochemical homochirality was a key step in the
 origin of life, yet prebiotic mechanisms for chiral separation are not
 well constrained. Here we demonstrate a geochemically plausible
 scenario for chiral separation of amino acids by adsorption on mineral
 surfaces. Crystals of the common rock-forming mineral calcite
 (CaCO3), when immersed in a racemic aspartic acid solution,
 display significant adsorption and chiral selectivity of d-
 and l-enantiomers on pairs of mirror-related crystal-growth
 surfaces. This selective adsorption is greater on crystals with
 terraced surface textures, which indicates that d- and
 l-aspartic acid concentrate along step-like linear growth
 features. Thus, selective adsorption of linear arrays of d-
 and l-amino acids on calcite, with subsequent condensation
 polymerization, represents a plausible geochemical mechanism for the
 production of homochiral polypeptides on the prebiotic Earth.DOC DONE!AbstractA statistical modeling approach is proposed for use in searching
 large microarray data sets for genes that have a transcriptional
 response to a stimulus. The approach is unrestricted with respect to
 the timing, magnitude or duration of the response, or the overall
 abundance of the transcript. The statistical model makes an
 accommodation for systematic heterogeneity in expression levels.
 Corresponding data analyses provide gene-specific information, and the
 approach provides a means for evaluating the statistical significance
 of such information. To illustrate this strategy we have derived a
 model to depict the profile expected for a periodically transcribed
 gene and used it to look for budding yeast transcripts that adhere to
 this profile. Using objective criteria, this method identifies 81% of
 the known periodic transcripts and 1,088 genes, which show significant
 periodicity in at least one of the three data sets analyzed. However,
 only one-quarter of these genes show significant oscillations in at
 least two data sets and can be classified as periodic with high
 confidence. The method provides estimates of the mean activation and
 deactivation times, induced and basal expression levels, and
 statistical measures of the precision of these estimates for each
 periodic transcript.DOC DONE!AbstractThe crystal structures of the ligand-binding domain (LBD) of the
 vitamin D receptor complexed to 1α,25(OH)2D3
 and the 20-epi analogs, MC1288 and KH1060, show that the protein
 conformation is identical, conferring a general character to the
 observation first made for retinoic acid receptor (RAR) that, for a
 given LBD, the agonist conformation is unique, the ligands adapting to
 the binding pocket. In all complexes, the A- to D-ring moieties of the
 ligands adopt the same conformation and form identical contacts with
 the protein. Differences are observed only for the 17β-aliphatic
 chains that adapt their conformation to anchor the 25-hydroxyl group to
 His-305 and His-397. The inverted geometry of the C20 methyl group
 induces different paths of the aliphatic chains. The ligands exhibit a
 low-energy conformation for MC1288 and a more strained conformation for
 the two others. KH1060 compensates this energy cost by additional
 contacts. Based on the present data, the explanation of the
 superagonist effect is to be found in higher stability and longer
 half-life of the active complex, thereby excluding different
 conformations of the ligand binding domain.DOC DONE!AbstractWe have developed an extremely sensitive technique, termed
 immuno-detection amplified by T7 RNA polymerase (IDAT) that is capable
 of monitoring proteins, lipids, and metabolites and their modifications
 at the single-cell level. A double-stranded oligonucleotide containing
 the T7 promoter is conjugated to an antibody (Ab), and then T7 RNA
 polymerase is used to amplify RNA from the double-stranded
 oligonucleotides coupled to the Ab in the Ab-antigen complex. By using
 this technique, we are able to detect the p185her2/neu
 receptor from the crude lysate of T6–17 cells at 10−13
 dilution, which is 109-fold more sensitive than the
 conventional ELISA method. Single-chain Fv fragments or complementarity
 determining region peptides of the Ab also can be substituted for the
 Ab in IDAT. In a modified protocol, the oligonucleotide has been
 coupled to an Ab against a common epitope to create a universal
 detector species. With the linear amplification ability of T7 RNA
 polymerase, IDAT represents a significant improvement over immuno-PCR
 in terms of sensitivity and has the potential to provide a robotic
 platform for proteomics.DOC DONE!AbstractWe have used 19F NMR to analyze the metal ion-induced
 folding of the hammerhead ribozyme by selective incorporation of
 5fluorouridine. We have studied the chemical shift and linewidths
 of 19F resonances of 5-fluorouridine at the 4 and 7
 positions in the ribozyme core as a function of added Mg2+.
 The data fit well to a simple two-state model whereby the formation of
 domain 1 is induced by the noncooperative binding of Mg2+
 with an association constant in the range of 100 to 500
 M−1, depending on the concentration of monovalent ions
 present. The results are in excellent agreement with data reporting on
 changes in the global shape of the ribozyme. However, the NMR
 experiments exploit reporters located in the center of the RNA sections
 undergoing the folding transitions, thereby allowing the assignment of
 specific nucleotides to the separate stages. The results define the
 folding pathway at high resolution and provide a time scale for the
 first transition in the millisecond range.DOC DONE!AbstractThe 2.15-Å structure of Hjc, a Holliday junction-resolving enzyme
 from the archaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus, reveals
 extensive structural homology with a superfamily of nucleases that
 includes type II restriction enzymes. Hjc is a dimer with a large
 DNA-binding surface consisting of numerous basic residues surrounding
 the metal-binding residues of the active sites. Residues critical for
 catalysis, identified on the basis of sequence comparisons and
 site-directed mutagenesis studies, are clustered to produce two active
 sites in the dimer, about 29 Å apart, consistent with the requirement
 for the introduction of paired nicks in opposing strands of the
 four-way DNA junction substrate. Hjc displays similarity to the
 restriction endonucleases in the way its specific DNA-cutting pattern
 is determined but uses a different arrangement of nuclease subunits.
 Further structural similarity to a broad group of
 metal/phosphate-binding proteins, including conservation of
 active-site location, is observed. A high degree of conservation of
 surface electrostatic character is observed between Hjc and T4-phage
 endonuclease VII despite a complete lack of structural homology. A
 model of the Hjc–Holliday junction complex is proposed, based on the
 available functional and structural data.DOC DONE!AbstractMelanoma inhibitory activity (MIA) is a 12-kDa protein that is
 secreted from both chondrocytes and malignant melanoma cells. MIA has
 been reported to have effects on cell growth and adhesion, and it may
 play a role in melanoma metastasis and cartilage development. We report
 the 1.4-Å crystal structure of human MIA, which consists of an Src
 homology 3 (SH3)-like domain with N- and C-terminal extensions of about
 20 aa each. The N- and C-terminal extensions add additional structural
 elements to the SH3 domain, forming a previously undescribed fold. MIA
 is a representative of a recently identified family of proteins and is
 the first structure of a secreted protein with an SH3 subdomain. The
 structure also suggests a likely protein interaction site and suggests
 that, unlike conventional SH3 domains, MIA does not recognize
 polyproline helices.DOC DONE!AbstractIt is known that an E146D site-directed variant of the
 Azotobacter vinelandii iron protein (Fe protein) is
 specifically defective in its ability to participate in iron-molybdenum
 cofactor (FeMoco) insertion. Molybdenum-iron protein (MoFe protein)
 from the strain expressing the E146D Fe protein is partially (≈45%)
 FeMoco deficient. The “free” FeMoco that is not inserted
 accumulates in the cell. We were able to insert this “free”
 FeMoco into the partially pure FeMoco-deficient MoFe protein. This
 insertion reaction required crude extract of the ΔnifHDK A.
 vinelandii strain CA12, Fe protein and MgATP. We used this as
 an assay to purify a required “insertion” protein. The purified
 protein was identified as GroEL, based on the molecular mass of its
 subunit (58.8 kDa), crossreaction with commercially available
 antibodies raised against E. coli GroEL, and its
 NH2-terminal polypeptide sequence. The
 NH2-terminal polypeptide sequence showed identity of up to
 84% to GroEL from various organisms. Purified GroEL of A.
 vinelandii alone or in combination with MgATP and Fe protein
 did not support the FeMoco insertion into pure FeMoco-deficient MoFe
 protein, suggesting that there are still other proteins and/or
 factors missing. By using GroEL-containing extracts from a
 ΔnifHDK strain of A. vinelandii CA12
 along with FeMoco, Fe protein, and MgATP, we were able to supply all
 required proteins and/or factors and obtained a fully active
 reconstituted E146D nifH MoFe protein. The involvement
 of the molecular chaperone GroEL in the insertion of a metal cluster
 into an apoprotein may have broad implications for the maturation of
 other metalloenzymes.DOC DONE!AbstractThe extracellular domain of p185c-neu can be viewed as
 a complex structure of four subdomains, two of which are cysteine-rich
 subdomains. We have investigated the contribution of these distinct
 p185c-neu extracellular subdomains to p185/epidermal
 growth factor receptor (EGFR) heteromer formation and EGF-induced
 heteromeric signaling. Our studies indicate that at least two separate
 p185 subdomains, a region spanning subdomains I and II and subdomain IV
 are involved in association of p185 with the EGFR. We also demonstrated
 that subdomain IV reduced the heteromeric signaling and transforming
 activities induced by EGF after associating with EGFR. When 126 aa were
 deleted from subdomain IV, this small subdomain IV-derived fragment
 could still lead to heterodimers with EGFR and suppress EGF-induced
 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation and subsequent
 transformation abilities. These data provide information about
 trans-inhibitory mechanisms of mutant p185 species and also indicate
 that both the entire and a part of subdomain IV may represent a
 therapeutic target for erbB-overexpressing tumors. Finally, these
 studies define a basic feature of receptor-receptor associations that
 are determined by cystine-knot containing subdomains.DOC DONE!AbstractSm proteins form the core of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein
 particles (snRNPs), making them key components of several
 mRNA-processing assemblies, including the spliceosome. We report the
 1.75-Å crystal structure of SmAP, an Sm-like archaeal protein that
 forms a heptameric ring perforated by a cationic pore. In addition to
 providing direct evidence for such an assembly in eukaryotic snRNPs,
 this structure (i) shows that SmAP homodimers are
 structurally similar to human Sm heterodimers, (ii)
 supports a gene duplication model of Sm protein evolution, and
 (iii) offers a model of SmAP bound to single-stranded
 RNA (ssRNA) that explains Sm binding-site specificity. The pronounced
 electrostatic asymmetry of the SmAP surface imparts directionality to
 putative SmAP–RNA interactions.DOC DONE!AbstractThe human Xrcc3 protein is involved in the repair of damaged DNA
 through homologous recombination, in which homologous pairing is a key
 step. The Rad51 protein is believed to be the only protein factor that
 promotes homologous pairing in recombinational DNA repair in mitotic
 cells. In the brain, however, Rad51 expression is
 extremely low, whereas XRCC3, a human homologue of
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD57 that activates the
 Rad51-dependent homologous pairing with the yeast Rad55 protein, is
 expressed. In this study, a two-hybrid analysis conducted with the use
 of a human brain cDNA library revealed that the major Xrcc3-interacting
 protein is a Rad51 paralog, Rad51C/Rad51L2. The purified
 Xrcc3⋅Rad51C complex, which shows apparent 1:1 stoichiometry, was
 found to catalyze the homologous pairing. Although the activity is
 reduced, the Rad51C protein alone also catalyzed homologous pairing,
 suggesting that Rad51C is a catalytic subunit for homologous pairing.
 The DNA-binding activity of Xrcc3⋅Rad51C was drastically decreased
 in the absence of Xrcc3, indicating that Xrcc3 is important for the DNA
 binding of Xrcc3⋅Rad51C. Electron microscopic observations
 revealed that Xrcc3⋅Rad51C and Rad51C formed similar filamentous
 structures with circular single-stranded DNA.DOC DONE!AbstractTFIIH is a multifunctional RNA polymerase II general initiation
 factor that includes two DNA helicases encoded by the Xeroderma
 pigmentosum complementation group B (XPB) and D
 (XPD) genes and a cyclin-dependent protein kinase
 encoded by the CDK7 gene. Previous studies have shown
 that the TFIIH XPB DNA helicase plays critical roles not only in
 transcription initiation, where it catalyzes ATP-dependent formation of
 the open complex, but also in efficient promoter escape, where it
 suppresses arrest of very early RNA polymerase II elongation
 intermediates. In this report, we present evidence that ATP-dependent
 TFIIH action in transcription initiation and promoter escape requires
 distinct regions of the DNA template; these regions are well separated
 from the promoter region unwound by the XPB DNA helicase and extend,
 respectively, ≈23–39 and ≈39–50 bp downstream from the
 transcriptional start site. Taken together, our findings bring to light
 a role for promoter DNA in TFIIH action and are consistent with the
 model that TFIIH translocates along promoter DNA ahead of the RNA
 polymerase II elongation complex until polymerase has escaped the
 promoter.DOC DONE!AbstractNox1, a homologue of gp91phox, the catalytic
 moiety of the superoxide (O)-generating NADPH
 oxidase of phagocytes, causes increased O
 generation, increased mitotic rate, cell transformation, and
 tumorigenicity when expressed in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts. This study
 explores the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in regulating cell
 growth and transformation by Nox1. H2O2
 concentration increased ≈10-fold in Nox1-expressing cells, compared
 with <2-fold increase in O. When human catalase was
 expressed in Nox1-expressing cells, H2O2
 concentration decreased, and the cells reverted to a normal appearance,
 the growth rate normalized, and cells no longer produced tumors in
 athymic mice. A large number of genes, including many related to cell
 cycle, growth, and cancer (but unrelated to oxidative stress), were
 expressed in Nox1-expressing cells, and more than 60% of these
 returned to normal levels on coexpression of catalase. Thus,
 H2O2 in low concentrations functions as an
 intracellular signal that triggers a genetic program related to cell
 growth.DOC DONE!AbstractThe isolation of thionein (T) from tissues has not been reported
 heretofore. T contains 20 cysteinyl residues that react with
 7-fluorobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole-4-sulfonamide to form fluorescent
 adducts. In metallothionein (MT) the cysteinyl residues, which
 are bound to zinc, do not react. However, they do react in the presence
 of a chelating agent such as EDTA. The resultant difference in chemical
 reactivity provides a means to measure T in the absence of EDTA, (MT +
 T) in its presence, and, of course, MT by difference. The
 7-fluorobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole-4-sulfonamide derivative of T can be
 isolated from tissue homogenates by HPLC and quantified
 fluorimetrically with a detection limit in the femtomolar range and a
 linear response over 3 orders of magnitude. Analysis of liver, kidney,
 and brain of rats reveals almost as much T as MT. Moreover, in contrast
 to earlier views, MT in tissue extracts appears to be less stable than
 T. The existence of T in tissues under normal physiological conditions
 has important implications for its function both in zinc metabolism and
 the redox balance of the cell.DOC DONE!AbstractLiver-specific and nonliver-specific methionine
 adenosyltransferases (MATs) are products of two genes,
 MAT1A and MAT2A, respectively, that
 catalyze the formation of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet),
 the principal biological methyl donor. Mature liver expresses
 MAT1A, whereas MAT2A is expressed in
 extrahepatic tissues and is induced during liver growth and
 dedifferentiation. To examine the influence of MAT1A on
 hepatic growth, we studied the effects of a targeted disruption of the
 murine MAT1A gene. MAT1A mRNA and protein
 levels were absent in homozygous knockout mice. At 3 months, plasma
 methionine level increased 776% in knockouts. Hepatic AdoMet and
 glutathione levels were reduced by 74 and 40%, respectively, whereas
 S-adenosylhomocysteine, methylthioadenosine, and global
 DNA methylation were unchanged. The body weight of 3-month-old knockout
 mice was unchanged from wild-type littermates, but the liver weight was
 increased 40%. The Affymetrix genechip system and Northern
 and Western blot analyses were used to analyze differential expression
 of genes. The expression of many acute phase-response and inflammatory
 markers, including orosomucoid, amyloid, metallothionein, Fas
 antigen, and growth-related genes, including early growth response 1
 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen, is increased in the knockout
 animal. At 3 months, knockout mice are more susceptible to
 choline-deficient diet-induced fatty liver. At 8 months, knockout mice
 developed spontaneous macrovesicular steatosis and predominantly
 periportal mononuclear cell infiltration. Thus, absence of
 MAT1A resulted in a liver that is more susceptible to
 injury, expresses markers of an acute phase response, and displays
 increased proliferation.DOC DONE!AbstractTransthyretin (TTR) tetramer dissociation and misfolding facilitate
 assembly into amyloid fibrils that putatively cause senile systemic
 amyloidosis and familial amyloid polyneuropathy. We have previously
 discovered more than 50 small molecules that bind to and stabilize
 tetrameric TTR, inhibiting amyloid fibril formation in
 vitro. A method is presented here to evaluate the binding
 selectivity of these inhibitors to TTR in human plasma, a complex
 biological fluid composed of more than 60 proteins and numerous small
 molecules. Our immunoprecipitation approach isolates TTR and bound
 small molecules from a biological fluid such as plasma, and quantifies
 the amount of small molecules bound to the protein by HPLC analysis.
 This approach demonstrates that only a small subset of the inhibitors
 that saturate the TTR binding sites in vitro do so in
 plasma. These selective inhibitors can now be tested in animal models
 of TTR amyloid disease to probe the validity of the amyloid hypothesis.
 This method could be easily extended to evaluate small molecule binding
 selectivity to any protein in a given biological fluid without the
 necessity of determining or guessing which other protein components may
 be competitors. This is a central issue to understanding the
 distribution, metabolism, activity, and toxicity of potential drugs.DOC DONE!AbstractRibozyme activity in vivo depends on achieving
 high-level expression, intracellular stability, target
 colocalization, and cleavage site access. At present, target site
 selection is problematic because of unforeseeable secondary and
 tertiary RNA structures that prevent cleavage. To overcome this design
 obstacle, we wished to engineer a ribozyme that could access any chosen
 site. To create this ribozyme, the constitutive transport element
 (CTE), an RNA motif that has the ability to interact with intracellular
 RNA helicases, was attached to our ribozymes so that the
 helicase-bound, hybrid ribozymes would be produced in cells. This
 modification significantly enhanced ribozyme activity in
 vivo, permitting cleavage of sites previously found to be
 inaccessible. To confer cleavage enhancement, the CTE must retain
 helicase-binding activity. Binding experiments demonstrated the likely
 involvement of RNA helicase(s). We found that attachment of the RNA
 motif to our tRNA ribozymes leads to cleavage in vivo at
 the chosen target site regardless of the local RNA secondary or
 tertiary structure.DOC DONE!AbstractA structural motif, the tryptophan zipper (trpzip), greatly
 stabilizes the β-hairpin conformation in short peptides. Peptides (12
 or 16 aa in length) with four different turn sequences are monomeric
 and fold cooperatively in water, as has been observed previously for
 some hairpin peptides. However, the folding free energies of the
 trpzips exceed substantially those of all previously reported
 β-hairpins and even those of some larger designed proteins. NMR
 structures of three of the trpzip peptides reveal exceptionally
 well-defined β-hairpin conformations stabilized by cross-strand pairs
 of indole rings. The trpzips are the smallest peptides to adopt an
 unique tertiary fold without requiring metal binding, unusual amino
 acids, or disulfide crosslinks.DOC DONE!AbstractIntramolecular chain diffusion is an elementary process in the
 conformational fluctuations of the DNA hairpin-loop. We have studied
 the temperature and viscosity dependence of a model DNA hairpin-loop by
 FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) fluctuation spectroscopy
 (FRETfs). Apparent thermodynamic parameters were obtained by analyzing
 the correlation amplitude through a two-state model and are consistent
 with steady-state fluorescence measurements. The kinetics of closing
 the loop show non-Arrhenius behavior, in agreement with theoretical
 prediction and other experimental measurements on peptide folding. The
 fluctuation rates show a fractional power dependence (β = 0.83)
 on the solution viscosity. A much slower intrachain diffusion
 coefficient in comparison to that of polypeptides was derived based on
 the first passage time theory of SSS [Szabo, A., Schulten, K. &
 Schulten, Z. (1980) J. Chem. Phys. 72,
 4350–4357], suggesting that intrachain interactions, especially
 stacking interaction in the loop, might increase the roughness of the
 free energy surface of the DNA hairpin-loop.DOC DONE!AbstractThe structural changes accompanying stretch-induced early unfolding
 events were investigated for the four type III fibronectin (FN-III)
 modules, FN-III7, FN-III8, FN-III9,
 and FN-III10 by using steered molecular dynamics.
 Simulations revealed that two main energy barriers, I and II, have to
 be overcome to initiate unraveling of FN-III's tertiary structure. In
 crossing the first barrier, the two opposing β-sheets of FN-III are
 rotated against each other such that the β-strands of both β-sheets
 align parallel to the force vector (aligned state). All further events
 in the unfolding pathway proceed from this intermediate state. A second
 energy barrier has to be overcome to break the first major cluster of
 hydrogen bonds between adjacent β-strands. Simulations revealed that
 the height of barrier I varied significantly among the four modules
 studied, being largest for FN-III7 and lowest for
 FN-III10, whereas the height of barrier II showed little
 variation. Key residues affecting the mechanical stability of FN-III
 modules were identified. These results suggest that FN-III modules can
 be prestretched into an intermediate state with only minor changes to
 their tertiary structures. FN-III10, for example, extends
 12 Å from the native “twisted” to the intermediate aligned
 state, and an additional 10 Å from the aligned state to further
 unfolding where the first β-strand is peeled away. The implications
 of the existence of intermediate states regarding the elasticity of
 fibrillar fibers and the stretch-induced exposure of cryptic sites are
 discussed.DOC DONE!Abstractp13suc1 has two native states, a monomer and a domain-swapped
 dimer. We show that their folding pathways are connected by the
 denatured state, which introduces a kinetic barrier between monomer and
 dimer under native conditions. The barrier is lowered under conditions
 that speed up unfolding, thereby allowing, to our knowledge for the
 first time, a quantitative dissection of the energetics of domain
 swapping. The monomer–dimer equilibrium is controlled by two conserved
 prolines in the hinge loop that connects the exchanging domains. These
 two residues exploit backbone strain to specifically direct dimer
 formation while preventing higher-order oligomerization. Thus, the loop
 acts as a loaded molecular spring that releases tension in the monomer
 by adopting its alternative conformation in the dimer. There is an
 excellent correlation between domain swapping and aggregation,
 suggesting they share a common mechanism. These insights have allowed
 us to redesign the domain-swapping propensity of suc1 from a fully
 monomeric to a fully dimeric protein.DOC DONE!AbstractVsx-1 is a paired-like:CVC homeobox gene whose
 expression is linked to bipolar cell differentiation during zebrafish
 retinogenesis. We used a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify proteins
 interacting with Vsx-1 and isolated Ubc9, an enzyme that conjugates the
 small ubiquitin-like modifier SUMO-1. Despite its interaction with
 Ubc9, we show that Vsx-1 is not a substrate for SUMO-1 in COS-7 cells
 or in vitro. When a yeast two-hybrid assay is used,
 deletion analysis of the interacting domain on Vsx-1 shows that Ubc9
 binds to a nuclear localization signal (NLS) at the NH2
 terminus of the homeodomain. In SW13 cells, Vsx-1 localizes to the
 nucleus and is excluded from nucleoli. Deletion of the NLS disrupts
 this nuclear localization, resulting in a diffuse cytoplasmic
 distribution of Vsx-1. In SW13 AK1 cells that express low levels of
 endogenous Ubc9, Vsx-1 accumulates in a perinuclear ring
 and colocalizes with an endoplasmic reticulum marker. However,
 NLS-tagged STAT1 protein exhibits normal nuclear localization in both
 SW13 and SW13 AK1 cells, suggesting that nuclear import is not globally
 disrupted. Cotransfection of Vsx-1 with Ubc9 restores Vsx-1 nuclear
 localization in SW3 AK1 cells and demonstrates that Ubc9 is required
 for the nuclear localization of Vsx-1. Ubc9 continues to restore
 nuclear localization even after a C93S active site mutation has
 eliminated its SUMO-1-conjugating ability. These results suggest that
 Ubc9 mediates the nuclear localization of Vsx-1, and possibly other
 proteins, through a nonenzymatic mechanism that is independent of
 SUMO-1 conjugation.DOC DONE!AbstractIn this work we extended the study of genes controlling the
 formation of specific differentiation structures called “domes”
 formed by the rat mammary adenocarcinoma cell line LA7 under the
 influence of DMSO. We have reported previously that an
 interferon-inducible gene, rat-8, and the β-subunit of the epithelial
 sodium channel (ENaC) play a fundamental role in this process. Now, we
 used a proteomic approach to identify proteins differentially expressed
 either in DMSO-induced LA7 or in 106A10 cells. Two differentially
 expressed proteins were investigated. The first, tropomyosin-5b,
 strongly expressed in DMSO-induced LA7 cells, is needed for dome
 formation because its synthesis inhibition by the antisense RNA
 technology abolished domes. The second protein, maspin, strongly
 expressed in the uninduced 106A10 cell line, inhibits dome formation
 because 106A10 cells, transfected with rat8 cDNA (the function of which
 is required for the organization of these structures), acquired the
 ability to develop domes when cultured in presence of an antimaspin
 antibody. Dome formation in these cultures are accompanied by ENaC
 β-subunit expression in the absence of DMSO. Therefore, dome
 formation requires the expression of tropomyosin-5b, in addition to the
 ENaC β-subunit and the rat8 proteins, and is under the negative
 control of maspin.DOC DONE!AbstractCritical to homeostasis of blood cell production by hematopoietic
 stem/progenitor (HSC/P) cells is the regulation of HSC/P
 retention within the bone marrow microenvironment and migration between
 the bone marrow and the blood. Key extracellular regulatory elements
 for this process have been defined (cell–cell adhesion, growth
 factors, chemokines), but the mechanism by which HSC/P cells
 reconcile multiple external signals has not been elucidated. Rac and
 related small GTPases are candidates for this role and were studied in
 HSC/P deficient in Rac2, a hematopoietic cell-specific family member.
 Rac2 appears to be critical for HSC/P adhesion both in
 vitro and in vivo, whereas a compensatory
 increase in Cdc42 activation regulates HSC/P migration. This genetic
 analysis provides physiological evidence of cross-talk between GTPase
 proteins and suggests that a balance of these two GTPases controls
 HSC/P adhesion and mobilization in vivo.DOC DONE!AbstractLipid rafts are microdomains present within membranes of most cell
 types. These membrane microdomains, which are enriched in cholesterol
 and glycosphingolipids, have been implicated in the regulation of
 certain signal transduction and membrane traffic pathways. To
 investigate the possibility that lipid rafts organize exocytotic
 pathways in neuroendocrine cells, we examined the association of
 proteins of the exocytotic machinery with rafts purified from PC12
 cells. The target soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive
 factor attachment protein receptor (tSNARE) proteins syntaxin 1A and
 synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) were both found to
 be highly enriched in lipid rafts (≈25-fold). The vesicle SNARE
 vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)2 was also present in raft
 fractions, but the extent of this recovery was variable. However,
 further analysis revealed that the majority of VAMP2 was associated
 with a distinct class of raft with different detergent solubility
 characteristics to the rafts containing syntaxin 1A and SNAP-25.
 Interestingly, no other studied secretory proteins were significantly
 associated with lipid rafts, including SNARE effector proteins such as
 nSec1. Chemical crosslinking experiments showed that
 syntaxin1A/SNAP-25 heterodimers were equally present in raft and
 nonraft fractions, whereas syntaxin1A/nSec1 complexes were detected
 only in nonraft fractions. SDS-resistance assays revealed that
 raft-associated syntaxin1A/SNAP-25 heterodimers were able to interact
 with VAMP2. Finally, reduction of cellular cholesterol levels decreased
 the extent of regulated exocytosis of dopamine from PC12 cells. The
 results described suggest that the interaction of SNARE proteins with
 lipid rafts is important for exocytosis and may allow structural and
 spatial organization of the secretory machinery.DOC DONE!AbstractRck2, a yeast Ser/Thr protein kinase homologous to mammalian
 calmodulin kinases, requires phosphorylation for
 activation. We provide evidence that in budding yeast, this step can be
 executed by the osmostress-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase
 Hog1. Rck2 phosphorylation was transiently increased during osmostress
 or in mutants with a hyperactive high osmolarity glycerol (HOG)
 pathway. This modification depended on catalytically active Hog1 kinase
 and two putative mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation sites
 in Rck2. Immunokinase assays showed that Hog1 can directly
 phosphorylate Rck2 to stimulate its enzymatic activity toward
 translation elongation factor 2. We demonstrate that Hog1 and Rck2 are
 necessary for attenuation of protein synthesis in response to osmotic
 challenge and show that modification of elongation factor 2 induced by
 osmostress depends on Rck2 and Hog1 in vivo. Therefore,
 we propose that the transient down-regulation of protein synthesis
 after osmotic shock is a response not to damage but to an extracellular
 signal mediated by Hog1 and Rck2.DOC DONE!AbstractA statistical modeling approach is proposed for use in searching
 large microarray data sets for genes that have a transcriptional
 response to a stimulus. The approach is unrestricted with respect to
 the timing, magnitude or duration of the response, or the overall
 abundance of the transcript. The statistical model makes an
 accommodation for systematic heterogeneity in expression levels.
 Corresponding data analyses provide gene-specific information, and the
 approach provides a means for evaluating the statistical significance
 of such information. To illustrate this strategy we have derived a
 model to depict the profile expected for a periodically transcribed
 gene and used it to look for budding yeast transcripts that adhere to
 this profile. Using objective criteria, this method identifies 81% of
 the known periodic transcripts and 1,088 genes, which show significant
 periodicity in at least one of the three data sets analyzed. However,
 only one-quarter of these genes show significant oscillations in at
 least two data sets and can be classified as periodic with high
 confidence. The method provides estimates of the mean activation and
 deactivation times, induced and basal expression levels, and
 statistical measures of the precision of these estimates for each
 periodic transcript.DOC DONE!Abstractneuralized (neur) is a
 neurogenic mutant of Drosophila in which many signaling
 events mediated by the Notch (N) receptor are disrupted. Here, we
 analyze the role of neur during eye development.
 Neur is required in a cell-autonomous fashion to
 restrict R8 and other photoreceptor fates and is involved in lateral
 inhibition of interommatidial bristles but is not required for
 induction of the cone cell fate. The latter contrasts with the absolute
 requirement for Suppressor of Hairless and the
 Enhancer of split-Complex for cone cell induction. Using
 gain-of-function experiments, we further demonstrate that ectopic
 wild-type and truncated Neur proteins can interfere with multiple
 N-controlled aspects of eye development, including both
 neur-dependent and neur-independent
 processes.DOC DONE!AbstractNotch proteins function as receptors for membrane-bound
 ligands (Jagged and Delta-like) to regulate cell-fate determination. We
 have investigated the role of Notch signaling in embryonic endothelium
 of the mouse by expressing an activated form of the Notch4 protein in
 vasculature under the regulation of the Flk1 (VEGFR)
 locus. Expression of activated Notch4 results in a growth and
 developmental delay and embryonic lethality at about 10 days
 postcoitum. The extent of the developing vasculature in mutant embryos
 was restricted, fewer small vessels were seen, and vascular networks
 were disorganized. The brain periphery of mutant embryos contained
 large dilated vessels with evidence of compromised vessel-wall
 integrity and large areas of necrosis; yolk-sac vasculature was
 abnormal. Expression of an activated form of Notch4 in embryonic
 vasculature leads to abnormal vessel structure and patterning,
 implicating the Notch pathway in phases of vascular development
 associated with vessel patterning and remodeling.DOC DONE!AbstractWe set out to define patterns of gene expression during kidney
 organogenesis by using high-density DNA array technology. Expression
 analysis of 8,740 rat genes revealed five discrete patterns or groups
 of gene expression during nephrogenesis. Group 1 consisted of genes
 with very high expression in the early embryonic kidney, many with
 roles in protein translation and DNA replication. Group 2 consisted of
 genes that peaked in midembryogenesis and contained many transcripts
 specifying proteins of the extracellular matrix. Many additional
 transcripts allied with groups 1 and 2 had known or proposed roles in
 kidney development and included LIM1, POD1, GFRA1, WT1, BCL2, Homeobox
 protein A11, timeless, pleiotrophin, HGF, HNF3, BMP4, TGF-α,
 TGF-β2, IGF-II, met, FGF7, BMP4, and ganglioside-GD3. Group 3
 consisted of transcripts that peaked in the neonatal period and
 contained a number of retrotransposon RNAs. Group 4 contained genes
 that steadily increased in relative expression levels throughout
 development, including many genes involved in energy metabolism and
 transport. Group 5 consisted of genes with relatively low levels of
 expression throughout embryogenesis but with markedly higher levels in
 the adult kidney; this group included a heterogeneous mix of
 transporters, detoxification enzymes, and oxidative stress genes. The
 data suggest that the embryonic kidney is committed to cellular
 proliferation and morphogenesis early on, followed sequentially by
 extracellular matrix deposition and acquisition of markers of terminal
 differentiation. The neonatal burst of retrotransposon mRNA was
 unexpected and may play a role in a stress response associated with
 birth. Custom analytical tools were developed including “The
 Equalizer” and “eBlot,” which contain improved methods for
 data normalization, significance testing, and data mining.DOC DONE!AbstractThree sequential hurricanes, Dennis, Floyd, and Irene,
 affected coastal North Carolina in September and October 1999. These
 hurricanes inundated the region with up to 1 m of rainfall,
 causing 50- to 500-year flooding in the watershed of the Pamlico Sound,
 the largest lagoonal estuary in the United States and a key West
 Atlantic fisheries nursery. We investigated the ecosystem-level impacts
 on and responses of the Sound to the floodwater discharge. Floodwaters
 displaced three-fourths of the volume of the Sound, depressed salinity
 by a similar amount, and delivered at least half of the typical annual
 nitrogen load to this nitrogen-sensitive ecosystem. Organic carbon
 concentrations in floodwaters entering Pamlico Sound via a major
 tributary (the Neuse River Estuary) were at least 2-fold higher than
 concentrations under prefloodwater conditions. A cascading set of
 physical, chemical, and ecological impacts followed, including strong
 vertical stratification, bottom water hypoxia, a sustained increase in
 algal biomass, displacement of many marine organisms, and a rise in
 fish disease. Because of the Sound's long residence time (≈1 year),
 we hypothesize that the effects of the short-term nutrient enrichment
 could prove to be multiannual. A predicted increase in the frequency of
 hurricane activity over the next few decades may cause longer-term
 biogeochemical and trophic changes in this and other estuarine and
 coastal habitats.DOC DONE!AbstractThe world contains boundaries (e.g., continental edge for
 terrestrial taxa) that impose geometric constraints on the distribution
 of species ranges. Thus, contrary to traditional thinking, the expected
 species richness pattern in absence of ecological or physiographical
 factors is unlikely to be uniform. Species richness has been shown to
 peak in the middle of a bounded one-dimensional domain, even in the
 absence of ecological or physiographical factors. Because species
 ranges are not linear, an extension of the approach to two dimensions
 is necessary. Here we present a two-dimensional null model accounting
 for effects of geometric constraints. We use the model to examine the
 effects of continental edge on the distribution of terrestrial animals
 in Africa and compare the predictions with the observed pattern of
 species richness in birds endemic to the continent. Latitudinal,
 longitudinal, and two-dimensional patterns of species richness are
 predicted well from the modeled null effects alone. As expected, null
 effects are of high significance for wide ranging species only. Our
 results highlight the conceptual significance of an until recently
 neglected constraint from continental shape alone and support a more
 cautious analysis of species richness patterns at this scale.DOC DONE!AbstractTo what extent do local populations of tropical reef fishes persist
 through the recruitment of pelagic larvae to their natal reef? Endemics
 from small, isolated islands can help answer that question by
 indicating whether special biological attributes are needed for
 long-term survival under enforced localization in high-risk situations.
 Taxonomically and biologically, the endemics from seven such islands
 are broadly representative of their regional faunas. As natal-site
 recruitment occurs among reef fishes in much less isolated situations,
 these characteristics of island endemics indicate that a wide range of
 reef fishes could have persistent self-sustaining local populations.
 Because small islands regularly support substantial reef fish faunas,
 regional systems of small reserves could preserve much of the diversity
 of these fishes.DOC DONE!AbstractThe evolution of novelty in tightly integrated biological systems,
 such as hormones and their receptors, seems to challenge the theory of
 natural selection: it has not been clear how a new function for any one
 part (such as a ligand) can be selected for unless the other members of
 the system (e.g., a receptor) are already present. Here I show—based
 on identification and phylogenetic analysis of steroid receptors in
 basal vertebrates and reconstruction of the sequences and functional
 attributes of ancestral proteins—that the first steroid receptor was
 an estrogen receptor, followed by a progesterone receptor. Genome
 mapping and phylogenetic analyses indicate that the full complement of
 mammalian steroid receptors evolved from these ancient receptors by two
 large-scale genome expansions, one before the advent of jawed
 vertebrates and one after. Specific regulation of physiological
 processes by androgens and corticoids are relatively recent innovations
 that emerged after these duplications. These findings support a model
 of ligand exploitation in which the terminal ligand in a biosynthetic
 pathway is the first for which a receptor evolves; selection for this
 hormone also selects for the synthesis of intermediates despite the
 absence of receptors, and duplicated receptors then evolve affinity for
 these substances. In this way, novel hormone-receptor pairs are
 created, and an integrated system of increasing complexity elaborated.
 This model suggests that ligands for some “orphan” receptors may
 be found among intermediates in the synthesis of ligands for
 phylogenetically related receptors.DOC DONE!AbstractIn many species, the Y (or W) chromosome carries relatively few
 functional genes. This observation motivates the null hypothesis that
 the Y will be a minor contributor to genetic variation for fitness.
 Previous data and theory supported the null hypothesis, but evidence
 presented here shows that the Y of Drosophila
 melanogaster is a major determinant of a male's total fitness,
 with standing genetic variation estimated to be 68% of that of an
 entire X/autosome genomic haplotype. Most Y-linked genes are
 expressed during spermatogenesis, and correspondingly, we found that
 the Y influences fitness primarily through its effect on a male's
 reproductive success (sperm competition and/or mating success) rather
 than his egg-to-adult viability. But the fitness of a Y highly depended
 on the genetic makeup of its bearer, reverting from high to low in
 different genetic backgrounds. This pattern leads to large epistatic
 (inconsistent among backgrounds) but no additive (consistent among
 backgrounds) Y-linked genetic variance for fitness. On a
 microevolutionary scale, the observed large epistatic variation on the
 Y substantially reduces heritable variation for fitness among males,
 and on a macroevolutionary scale, the Y produces strong selection for
 genomic rearrangements that move interacting genes onto the
 nonrecombining region of the Y.DOC DONE!AbstractThe bed bug, Cimex lectularius, has a unique mode of
 copulation termed “traumatic” insemination [Carayon, J. (1966)
 in Monograph of the Cimicidae, ed. Usinger, R. (Entomol.
 Soc. Am., Philadelphia), pp. 81–167] during which the male pierces
 the female's abdominal wall with his external genitalia and
 inseminates into her body cavity [Carayon, J. (1966) in
 Monograph of the Cimicidae, ed. Usinger, R. (Entomol.
 Soc. Am., Philadelphia), pp. 81–167]. Under controlled natural
 conditions, traumatic insemination was frequent and temporally
 restricted. We show for the first time, to our knowledge, that
 traumatic insemination results in (i) last-male sperm
 precedence, (ii) suboptimal remating frequencies for the
 maintenance of female fertility, and (iii) reduced
 longevity and reproductive success in females. Experimental females did
 not receive indirect benefits from multiple mating. We conclude that
 traumatic insemination is probably a coercive male copulatory strategy
 that results in a sexual conflict of interests.DOC DONE!AbstractUnderstanding the factors responsible for variations in mutation
 patterns and selection efficacy along chromosomes is a prerequisite for
 deciphering genome sequences. Population genetics models predict a
 positive correlation between the efficacy of selection at a given locus
 and the local rate of recombination because of Hill–Robertson effects.
 Codon usage is considered one of the most striking examples that
 support this prediction at the molecular level. In a wide range of
 species including Caenorhabditis elegans
 and Drosophila melanogaster, codon usage is essentially
 shaped by selection acting for translational efficiency. Codon usage
 bias correlates positively with recombination rate in
 Drosophila, apparently supporting the hypothesis that
 selection on codon usage is improved by recombination. Here we present
 an exhaustive analysis of codon usage in C. elegans and
 D. melanogaster complete genomes. We show that in both
 genomes there is a positive correlation between recombination rate and
 the frequency of optimal codons. However, we demonstrate that in both
 species, this effect is due to a mutational bias toward G and C bases
 in regions of high recombination rate, possibly as a direct consequence
 of the recombination process. The correlation between codon usage bias
 and recombination rate in these species appears to be essentially
 determined by recombination-dependent mutational patterns, rather than
 selective effects. This result highlights that it is necessary to take
 into account the mutagenic effect of recombination to understand the
 evolutionary role and impact of recombination.DOC DONE!AbstractA search of databases with the sequence from the 5′ untranslated
 region of a Hydra cDNA clone encoding a receptor
 protein-tyrosine kinase revealed that a number of Hydra
 cDNAs contain one of two different sequences at their 5′ ends. This
 finding suggested the possibility that mRNAs in Hydra
 receive leader sequences by trans-splicing. This
 hypothesis was confirmed by the finding that the leader sequences are
 transcribed as parts of small RNAs encoded by genes located in the 5S
 rRNA clusters of Hydra. The two spliced leader (SL) RNAs
 (SL-A and -B) contain splice donor dinucleotides at the predicted
 positions, and genes that receive SLs contain splice acceptor
 dinucleotides at the predicted positions. Both of the SL RNAs are bound
 by antibody against trimethylguanosine, suggesting that they contain a
 trimethylguanosine cap. The predicted secondary structures of the
 Hydra SL RNAs show significant differences from the
 structures predicted for the SLs of other organisms. Messenger RNAs
 have been identified that can receive either SL-A or -B, although the
 impact of the two different SLs on the function of the mRNA is unknown.
 The presence and features of SL addition in the phylum Cnidaria raise
 interesting questions regarding the evolution of this process.DOC DONE!AbstractDarwin observed that multiple, lowly organized, rudimentary,
 or exaggerated structures show increased relative variability. However,
 the cellular basis for these laws has never been investigated. Some
 animals, such as the nematode Caenorhabditis
 elegans, are famous for having organs that possess the same
 number of cells in all individuals, a property known as eutely. But for
 most multicellular creatures, the extent of cell number variability is
 unknown. Here we estimate variability in organ cell number for a
 variety of animals, plants, slime moulds, and volvocine algae. We find
 that the mean and variance in cell number obey a power law with an
 exponent of 2, comparable to Taylor's law in ecological processes.
 Relative cell number variability, as measured by the coefficient of
 variation, differs widely across taxa and tissues, but is generally
 independent of mean cell number among homologous tissues of closely
 related species. We show that the power law for cell number variability
 can be explained by stochastic branching process models based on the
 properties of cell lineages. We also identify taxa in which the
 precision of developmental control appears to have evolved. We propose
 that the scale independence of relative cell number variability is
 maintained by natural selection.DOC DONE!AbstractNeocentromeres (NCs) are fully functional centromeres that arise
 ectopically in noncentromeric regions lacking α-satellite DNA. Using
 telomere-associated chromosome truncation, we have produced a series of
 minichromosomes (MiCs) from a mardel(10) marker chromosome containing a
 previously characterized human NC. These MiCs range in size from ≈0.7
 to 1.8 Mb and contain single-copy intact genomic DNA from the 10q25
 region. Two of these NC-based Mi-Cs (NC-MiCs) appear circular whereas
 one is linear. All demonstrate stability in both structure and mitotic
 transmission in the absence of drug selection. Presence of a functional
 NC is shown by binding a host of key centromere-associated proteins.
 These NC-MiCs provide direct evidence for mitotic segregation function
 of the NC DNA and represent examples of stable mammalian MiCs lacking
 centromeric repeats.DOC DONE!AbstractThe biological significance of DNA amplification in cancer is
 thought to be due to the selection of increased expression of a single
 or few important genes. However, systematic surveys of the copy number
 and expression of all genes within an amplified region of the genome
 have not been performed. Here we have used a combination of molecular,
 genomic, and microarray technologies to identify target genes for
 17q23, a common region of amplification in breast cancers with poor
 prognosis. Construction of a 4-Mb genomic contig made it possible to
 define two common regions of amplification in breast cancer cell lines.
 Analysis of 184 primary breast tumors by fluorescence in
 situ hybridization on tissue microarrays validated these
 results with the highest amplification frequency (12.5%) observed for
 the distal region. Based on GeneMap'99 information, 17 known genes and
 26 expressed sequence tags were localized to the contig. Analysis of
 genomic sequence identified 77 additional transcripts. A comprehensive
 analysis of expression levels of these transcripts in six breast cancer
 cell lines was carried out by using complementary DNA microarrays. The
 expression patterns varied from one cell line to another, and several
 overexpressed genes were identified. Of these, RPS6KB1,
 MUL, APPBP2, and TRAP240
 as well as one uncharacterized expressed sequence tag were located in
 the two common amplified regions. In summary, comprehensive analysis of
 the 17q23 amplicon revealed a limited number of highly expressed genes
 that may contribute to the more aggressive clinical course observed in
 breast cancer patients with 17q23-amplified tumors.DOC DONE!AbstractTargeted gene disruption in the murine TOP3β
 gene-encoding DNA topoisomerase IIIβ was carried out. In contrast to
 the embryonic lethality of mutant mice lacking DNA topoisomerase
 IIIα, top3β−/− nulls are viable and
 grow to maturity with no apparent defects. Mice lacking DNA
 topoisomerase IIIβ have a shorter life expectancy than their
 wild-type littermates, however. The mean lifespan of the
 top3β−/− mice is about 15 months,
 whereas that of their wild-type littermates is longer than 2 years.
 Mortality of the top3β−/− nulls
 appears to correlate with lesions in multiple organs, including
 hypertrophy of the spleen and submandibular lymph nodes,
 glomerulonephritis, and perivascular infiltrates in various organs.
 Because the DNA topoisomerase III isozymes are likely to interact with
 helicases of the RecQ family, enzymes that include the determinants of
 human Bloom, Werner, and Rothmund–Thomson syndromes, the shortened
 lifespan of top3β−/− mice points to
 the possibility that the DNA topoisomerase III isozymes might be
 involved in the pathogenesis of progeroid syndromes caused by defective
 RecQ helicases.DOC DONE!AbstractIt has been suggested that delayed DNA replication underlies
 fragility at common human fragile sites, but specific sequences
 responsible for expression of these inducible fragile sites have not
 been identified. One approach to identify such cis-acting sequences
 within the large nonexonic regions of fragile sites would be to
 identify conserved functional elements within orthologous fragile sites
 by interspecies sequence comparison. This study describes a comparison
 of orthologous fragile regions, the human
 FRA3B/FHIT and the murine
 Fra14A2/Fhit locus. We sequenced over
 600 kbp of the mouse Fra14A2, covering the region
 orthologous to the fragile epicenter of FRA3B, and
 determined the Fhit deletion break points in a mouse
 kidney cancer cell line (RENCA). The murine Fra14A2
 locus, like the human FRA3B, was characterized by a high
 AT content. Alignment of the two sequences showed that this fragile
 region was stable in evolution despite its susceptibility to mitotic
 recombination on inhibition of DNA replication. There were also several
 unusual highly conserved regions (HCRs). The positions of predicted
 matrix attachment regions (MARs), possibly related to replication
 origins, were not conserved. Of known fragile region landmarks, five
 cancer cell break points, one viral integration site, and one
 aphidicolin break cluster were located within or near HCRs. Thus,
 comparison of orthologous fragile regions has identified highly
 conserved sequences with possible functional roles in maintenance of
 fragility.DOC DONE!AbstractThe Drosophila trithorax group gene
 brahma (brm) encodes the ATPase subunit
 of a SWI/SNF-like chromatin-remodeling complex. A key question about
 chromatin-remodeling complexes is how they interact with DNA,
 particularly in the large genomes of higher eukaryotes. Here, we report
 the characterization of BAP111, a BRM-associated protein that contains
 a high mobility group (HMG) domain predicted to bind distorted or bent
 DNA. The presence of an HMG domain in BAP111 suggests that it may
 modulate interactions between the BRM complex and chromatin. BAP111 is
 an abundant nuclear protein that is present in all cells throughout
 development. By using gel filtration chromatography and
 immunoprecipitation assays, we found that the majority of BAP111
 protein in embryos is associated with the BRM complex. Furthermore,
 heterozygosity for BAP111 enhanced the phenotypes
 resulting from a partial loss of brm function. These
 data demonstrate that the BAP111 subunit is important for BRM complex
 function in vivo.DOC DONE!AbstractFanconi anemia (FA) is a rare, genetically heterogeneous autosomal
 recessive disorder associated with progressive aplastic anemia,
 congenital abnormalities, and cancer. FA has a very high incidence in
 the Afrikaner population of South Africa, possibly due to a founder
 effect. Previously we observed allelic association between polymorphic
 markers flanking the FA group A gene (FANCA) and disease
 chromosomes in Afrikaners. We genotyped 26 FA families with
 microsatellite and single nucleotide polymorphic markers and detected
 five FANCA haplotypes. Mutation scanning of the
 FANCA gene revealed association of these haplotypes with
 four different mutations. The most common was an intragenic deletion of
 exons 12–31, accounting for 60% of FA chromosomes in 46 unrelated
 Afrikaner FA patients, while two other mutations accounted for an
 additional 20%. Screening for these mutations in the European
 populations ancestral to the Afrikaners detected one patient from the
 Western Ruhr region of Germany who was heterozygous for the major
 deletion. The mutation was associated with the same unique
 FANCA haplotype as in Afrikaner patients. Genealogical
 investigation of 12 Afrikaner families with FA revealed that all were
 descended from a French Huguenot couple who arrived at the Cape on June
 5, 1688, whereas mutation analysis showed that the carriers of the
 major mutation were descendants of this same couple. The molecular and
 genealogical evidence is consistent with transmission of the major
 mutation to Western Germany and the Cape near the end of the 17th
 century, confirming the existence of a founder effect for FA in South
 Africa.DOC DONE!AbstractThe recent sequencing of several complete genomes has made it
 possible to track the evolution of large gene families by their genomic
 structure. Following the large-scale association of exons encoding
 domains with well defined functions in invertebrates could be useful in
 predicting the function of complex multidomain proteins in mammals
 produced by accretion of domains. With this objective, we have
 determined the genomic structure of the 14 genes in invertebrates and
 vertebrates that contain rel domains. The sequence encoding the rel
 domain is defined by intronic boundaries and has been recombined with
 at least three structurally and functionally distinct genomic sequences
 to generate coding sequences for: (i) the
 rel/Dorsal/NFκB proteins that are retained in the cytoplasm by
 IkB-like proteins; (ii) the NFATc proteins that sense
 calcium signals and undergo cytoplasmic-to-nuclear translocation in
 response to dephosphorylation by calcineurin; and (iii)
 the TonEBP tonicity-responsive proteins. Remarkably, a single exon in
 each NFATc family member encodes the entire
 Ca2+/calcineurin sensing region, including nuclear
 import/export, calcineurin-binding, and substrate regions. The
 Rel/Dorsal proteins and the TonEBP proteins are present in
 Drosophila but not Caenorhabditis
 elegans. On the other hand, the calcium-responsive NFATc
 proteins are present only in vertebrates, suggesting that the NFATc
 family is dedicated to functions specific to vertebrates such as a
 recombinational immune response, cardiovascular development, and
 vertebrate-specific aspects of the development and function of the
 nervous system.DOC DONE!AbstractCytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) induce apoptosis by engaging
 death receptors or by exocytosis of cytolytic granules containing
 granzyme (Gzm) proteases and perforin. The lamins, which maintain the
 structural integrity of the nuclear envelope, are cleaved by caspases
 during caspase-mediated apoptosis. Although death receptor
 engagement and GzmB activate caspases, CTL also induce
 apoptosis during caspase blockade. Both GzmA and GzmB directly
 and efficiently cleave laminB in vitro, in
 situ in isolated nuclei and in cells loaded with perforin and
 Gzms, even in the presence of caspase inhibitors. LaminB is cleaved by
 GzmA at concentrations of 3 nM, but GzmB is 50 times less active. GzmA
 cuts laminB at R392; GzmB cuts at the caspase VEVD231 site.
 Characteristic laminB fragments generated by Gzm proteolysis also are
 observed during CTL lysis, even in the presence of caspase inhibitors
 or in cells overexpressing bcl-2. Lamins A/C are direct substrates of
 GzmA, but not GzmB. GzmA and GzmB therefore directly target critical
 caspase substrates in caspase-resistant cells.DOC DONE!AbstractTo understand how virulent mycobacteria subvert host immunity and
 establish disease, we examined the differential response of mice to
 infection with various human outbreak Mycobacterium
 tuberculosis clinical isolates. One clinical isolate, HN878,
 was found to be hypervirulent, as demonstrated by unusually early death
 of infected immune-competent mice, compared with infection with other
 clinical isolates. The differential effect on survival required
 lymphocyte function because severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)
 mice infected with HN878 or other clinical isolates all died at the
 same rate. The hypervirulence of HN878 was associated with failure to
 induce M. tuberculosis-specific proliferation and
 IFN-γ production by spleen and lymph node cells from infected mice.
 In addition, 2- to 4-fold lower levels of tumor necrosis factor-α
 (TNF-α), IL-6, IL-12, and IFN-γ mRNAs were observed in lungs of
 HN878-infected mice. IL-10, IL-4, and IL-5 mRNA levels were not
 significantly elevated in lungs of HN878 infected mice. In contrast,
 IFN-α mRNA levels were significantly higher in lungs of these mice.
 To further investigate the role of Type 1 IFNs, mice infected with
 HN878 were treated intranasally with purified IFN-α/β.
 The treatment resulted in increased lung bacillary loads and even
 further reduced survival. These results suggest that the hypervirulence
 of HN878 may be due to failure of this strain to stimulate Th1 type
 immunity. In addition, the lack of development of Th1 immunity in
 response to HN878 appears to be associated with increased induction of
 Type 1 IFNs.DOC DONE!AbstractTwo of the most important models to account for the specificity and
 sensitivity of the T cell receptor (TCR) are the kinetic proofreading
 and serial ligation models. However, although kinetic proofreading
 provides a means for individual TCRs to measure accurately the length
 of time they are engaged and signal appropriately, the stochastic
 nature of ligand dissociation means the kinetic proofreading model
 implies that at high concentrations the response of the cell will be
 relatively nonspecific. Recent ligand experiments have revealed the
 phenomenon of both negative and positive crosstalk among neighboring
 TCRs. By using a Monte Carlo simulation of a lattice of TCRs, we
 integrate receptor crosstalk with the kinetic proofreading and serial
 ligation models and discover that receptor cooperativity can enhance T
 cell specificity significantly at a very modest cost to the sensitivity
 of the response.DOC DONE!Abstractp75/AIRM-1 is a recently identified inhibitory receptor expressed
 by natural killer and myeloid cells displaying high homology with CD33.
 Crosslinking of p75/AIRM-1 or CD33 has been shown to sharply inhibit
 the in vitro proliferation of both normal myeloid cells
 and chronic myeloid leukemias. In this study, we analyzed acute myeloid
 leukemic cells for the expression of p75/AIRM-1. p75/AIRM-1 marked
 the M5 (11/12) and M4 (2/2) but not the M1, M2, and M3 subtypes
 according to the French–American–British classification. Cell samples
 from 12 acute myeloid leukemias were cultured in the presence of
 granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Addition to these
 cultures of anti-CD33 antibody resulted in ≈70% inhibition of cell
 proliferation as assessed by [3H]thymidine uptake or by
 the recovery of viable cells. Anti-p75/AIRM-1 antibody exerted a
 strong inhibitory effect only in two cases characterized by a high
 in vitro proliferation rate. After crosslinking of CD33
 (but not of p75/AIRM-1), leukemic cells bound Annexin V and displayed
 changes in their light-scattering properties and nucleosomal DNA
 fragmentation, thus providing evidence for the occurrence of
 apoptotic cell death. Remarkably, when anti-CD33 antibody was
 used in combination with concentrations of etoposide insufficient to
 induce apoptosis when used alone, a synergistic effect could be
 detected in the induction of leukemic cell death. These studies provide
 the rationale for new therapeutic approaches in myeloid leukemias by
 using both chemotherapy and apoptosis-inducing mAbs.DOC DONE!AbstractIt has been proposed recently that the type of genetic instability
 in cancer cells reflects the selection pressures exerted by specific
 carcinogens. We have tested this hypothesis by treating immortal,
 genetically stable human cells with representative carcinogens. We
 found that cells resistant to the bulky-adduct-forming agent
 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine
 (PhIP) exhibited a chromosomal instability (CIN), whereas cells
 resistant to the methylating agent
 N-methyl-N′-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine
 (MNNG) exhibited a microsatellite instability (MIN) associated with
 mismatch repair defects. Conversely, we found that cells purposely made
 into CIN cells are resistant to PhIP, whereas MIN cells are resistant
 to MNNG. These data demonstrate that exposure to specific carcinogens
 can indeed select for tumor cells with distinct forms of genetic
 instability and vice versa.DOC DONE!AbstractThe recurrent t(1;22)(p13;q13) translocation is exclusively
 associated with infant acute megakaryoblastic leukemia. We have
 identified the two genes involved in this translocation. Both genes
 possess related sequences in the Drosophila genome. The chromosome 22
 gene (megakaryocytic acute
 leukemia, MAL) product is predicted to be
 involved in chromatin organization, and the chromosome 1 gene
 (one twenty-two,
 OTT) product is related to the Drosophila split-end
 (spen) family of proteins. Drosophila genetic experiments identified
 spen as involved in connecting the Raf and Hox pathways. Because almost
 all of the sequences and all of the identified domains of both OTT and
 MAL proteins are included in the predicted fusion protein, the OTT-MAL
 fusion could aberrantly modulate chromatin organization, Hox
 differentiation pathways, or extracellular signaling.DOC DONE!AbstractThe role of the cardiac myocyte as a mediator of paracrine
 signaling in the heart has remained unclear. To address this issue, we
 generated mice with cardiac myocyte-specific deletion of the vascular
 endothelial growth factor gene, thereby producing a
 cardiomyocyte-specific knockout of a secreted factor. The hearts of
 these mice had fewer coronary microvessels, thinned ventricular walls,
 depressed basal contractile function, induction of hypoxia-responsive
 genes involved in energy metabolism, and an abnormal response to
 β-adrenergic stimulation. These findings establish the critical
 importance of cardiac myocyte-derived vascular endothelial growth
 factor in cardiac morphogenesis and determination of heart function.
 Further, they establish an adult murine model of hypovascular
 nonnecrotic cardiac contractile dysfunction.DOC DONE!AbstractProteinase inhibitor I (Inh I) and proteinase inhibitor II (Inh II)
 from potato tubers are effective proteinase inhibitors of
 chymotrypsin and trypsin. Inh I and Inh II were shown to
 suppress irradiation-induced transformation in mouse embryo fibroblasts
 suggesting that they possess anticarcinogenic characteristics. We have
 previously demonstrated that Inh I and Inh II could effectively block
 UV irradiation-induced activation of transcription activator protein 1
 (AP-1) in mouse JB6 epidermal cells, which mechanistically may explain
 their anticarcinogenic actions. In the present study, we investigated
 the effects of Inh I and Inh II on the expression and composition
 pattern of the AP-1 complex following stimulation by UV B (UVB)
 irradiation in the JB6 model. We found that Inh I and Inh II
 specifically inhibited UVB-induced AP-1, but not NFκB, activity in
 JB6 cells. Both Inh I and Inh II up-regulated AP-1 constituent
 proteins, JunD and Fra-2, and suppressed c-Jun and c-Fos expression and
 composition in bound AP-1 in response to UVB stimulation. This
 regulation of the AP-1 protein compositional pattern in response to Inh
 I or Inh II may be critical for the inhibition of UVB-induced AP-1
 activity by these agents found in potatoes.DOC DONE!AbstractNO synthases are widely distributed in the lung and are extensively
 involved in the control of airway and vascular homeostasis. It is
 recognized, however, that the O2-rich environment of the
 lung may predispose NO toward toxicity. These Janus faces of NO are
 manifest in recent clinical trials with inhaled NO gas, which has shown
 therapeutic benefit in some patient populations but increased morbidity
 in others. In the airways and circulation of humans, most NO
 bioactivity is packaged in the form of S-nitrosothiols
 (SNOs), which are relatively resistant to toxic reactions with
 O2/O. This finding has led to the
 proposition that channeling of NO into SNOs may provide a natural
 defense against lung toxicity. The means to selectively manipulate the
 SNO pool, however, has not been previously possible. Here we report on
 a gas, O-nitrosoethanol (ENO), which does not react with
 O2 or release NO and which markedly increases the
 concentration of indigenous species of SNO within airway lining fluid.
 Inhalation of ENO provided immediate relief from hypoxic pulmonary
 vasoconstriction without affecting systemic hemodynamics. Further, in a
 porcine model of lung injury, there was no rebound in cardiopulmonary
 hemodynamics or fall in oxygenation on stopping the drug (as seen with
 NO gas), and additionally ENO protected against a decline in cardiac
 output. Our data suggest that SNOs within the lung serve in matching
 ventilation to perfusion, and can be manipulated for therapeutic gain.
 Thus, ENO may be of particular benefit to patients with pulmonary
 hypertension, hypoxemia, and/or right heart failure, and may offer a
 new therapeutic approach in disorders such as asthma and cystic
 fibrosis, where the airways may be depleted of SNOs.DOC DONE!AbstractVarious genetic conditions produce dysfunctional osteoclasts
 resulting in osteopetrosis or osteosclerosis. These include human
 pycnodysostosis, an autosomal recessive syndrome caused by cathepsin K
 mutation, cathepsin K-deficient mice, and mitf mutant
 rodent strains. Cathepsin K is a highly expressed cysteine protease in
 osteoclasts that plays an essential role in the degradation of protein
 components of bone matrix. Cathepsin K also is expressed in a
 significant fraction of human breast cancers where it could contribute
 to tumor invasiveness. Mitf is a member of a helix–loop–helix
 transcription factor subfamily, which contains the potential
 dimerization partners TFE3, TFEB, and TFEC. In mice, dominant negative,
 but not recessive, mutations of mitf, produce
 osteopetrosis, suggesting a functional requirement for other family
 members. Mitf also has been found—and TFE3 has been suggested—to
 modulate age-dependent changes in osteoclast function. This study
 identifies cathepsin K as a transcriptional target of Mitf and TFE3 via
 three consensus elements in the cathepsin K promoter. Additionally,
 cathepsin K mRNA and protein were found to be deficient in
 mitf mutant osteoclasts, and overexpression of wild-type
 Mitf dramatically up-regulated expression of endogenous
 cathepsin K in cultured human osteoclasts. Cathepsin K promoter
 activity was disrupted by dominant negative, but not recessive, mouse
 alleles of mitf in a pattern that closely matches their
 osteopetrotic phenotypes. This relationship between cathepsin K and the
 Mitf family helps explain the phenotypic overlap of their corresponding
 deficiencies in pycnodysostosis and osteopetrosis and identifies likely
 regulators of cathepsin K expression in bone homeostasis and human
 malignancy.DOC DONE!AbstractRetinopathy of prematurity is a blinding disease, initiated by lack
 of retinal vascular growth after premature birth. We show that lack of
 insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) in knockout mice prevents normal
 retinal vascular growth, despite the presence of vascular endothelial
 growth factor, important to vessel development. In
 vitro, low levels of IGF-I prevent vascular endothelial growth
 factor-induced activation of protein kinase B (Akt), a kinase critical
 for endothelial cell survival. Our results from studies in premature
 infants suggest that if the IGF-I level is sufficient after birth,
 normal vessel development occurs and retinopathy of prematurity does
 not develop. When IGF-I is persistently low, vessels cease to grow,
 maturing avascular retina becomes hypoxic and vascular endothelial
 growth factor accumulates in the vitreous. As IGF-I increases to a
 critical level, retinal neovascularization is triggered. These data
 indicate that serum IGF-I levels in premature infants can predict which
 infants will develop retinopathy of prematurity and further suggests
 that early restoration of IGF-I in premature infants to normal levels
 could prevent this disease.DOC DONE!AbstractChronic human heart failure is characterized by abnormalities in
 β-adrenergic receptor (βAR) signaling, including increased levels
 of βAR kinase 1 (βARK1), which seems critical to the pathogenesis
 of the disease. To determine whether inhibition of βARK1 is
 sufficient to rescue a model of severe heart failure, we mated
 transgenic mice overexpressing a peptide inhibitor of βARK1
 (βARKct) with transgenic mice overexpressing the sarcoplasmic
 reticulum Ca2+-binding protein, calsequestrin (CSQ). CSQ
 mice have a severe cardiomyopathy and markedly shortened survival
 (9 ± 1 weeks). In contrast, CSQ/βARKct mice exhibited
 a significant increase in mean survival age (15 ± 1 weeks;
 P < 0.0001) and showed less cardiac dilation, and
 cardiac function was significantly improved (CSQ vs.
 CSQ/βARKct, left ventricular end diastolic dimension
 5.60 ± 0.17 mm vs. 4.19 ± 0.09 mm, P <
 0.005; % fractional shortening, 15 ± 2 vs. 36 ± 2,
 P < 0.005). The enhancement of the survival rate
 in CSQ/βARKct mice was substantially potentiated by chronic
 treatment with the βAR antagonist metoprolol (CSQ/βARKct
 nontreated vs. CSQ/βARKct metoprolol treated, 15 ± 1
 weeks vs. 25 ± 2 weeks, P < 0.0001). Thus,
 overexpression of the βARKct resulted in a marked prolongation in
 survival and improved cardiac function in a mouse model of severe
 cardiomyopathy that can be potentiated with β-blocker therapy. These
 data demonstrate a significant synergy between an established
 heart-failure treatment and the strategy of βARK1 inhibition.DOC DONE!AbstractBiochemical, epidemiological, and genetic findings demonstrate a
 link between cholesterol levels, processing of the amyloid precursor
 protein (APP), and Alzheimer's disease. In the present report, we
 identify the α-secretase ADAM 10 (a disintegrin
 and metalloprotease) as a major target
 of the cholesterol effects on APP metabolism. Treatment of various
 peripheral and neural cell lines with either the cholesterol-extracting
 agent methyl-β-cyclodextrin or the hydroxymethyl glutaryl-CoA
 reductase inhibitor lovastatin resulted in a drastic increase of
 secreted α-secretase cleaved soluble APP. This strong stimulatory
 effect was in the range obtained with phorbol esters and was further
 increased in cells overexpressing ADAM 10. In cells overexpressing APP,
 the increase of α-secretase activity resulted in a decreased
 secretion of Aβ peptides. Several mechanisms were elucidated as being
 the basis of enhanced α-secretase activity: increased membrane
 fluidity and impaired internalization of APP were responsible for the
 effect observed with methyl-β-cyclodextrin; treatment with lovastatin
 resulted in higher expression of the α-secretase ADAM 10. Our results
 demonstrate that cholesterol reduction promotes the nonamyloidogenic
 α-secretase pathway and the formation of neuroprotective
 α-secretase cleaved soluble APP by several mechanisms and suggest
 approaches to prevention of or therapy for Alzheimer's disease.DOC DONE!AbstractAnticancer agents target various subcellular components and trigger
 apoptosis in chemosensitive cells. We have recently reported
 the tumor cell growth inhibitory properties of a mixture of
 triterpenoid saponins obtained from an Australian desert tree
 (Leguminosae) Acacia victoriae (Bentham). Here we report
 the purification of this mixture into two biologically pure components
 called avicins that contain an acacic acid core with two acyclic
 monoterpene units connected by a quinovose sugar. We demonstrate that
 the mixture of triterpenoid saponins and avicins induce
 apoptosis in the Jurkat human T cell line by affecting the
 mitochondrial function. Avicin G induced cytochrome c
 release within 30–120 min in whole cells and within a minute in the
 cell-free system. Caspase inhibitors DEVD or zVAD-fmk had no effect on
 cytochrome c release, suggesting the direct action of
 avicin G on the mitochondria. Activation of caspase-3 and total
 cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) occurred between 2 and
 6 h posttreatment with avicins by zVAD-fmk. Interestingly, in the
 treated cells no significant changes in the membrane potential preceded
 or accompanied cytochrome c release. A small decrease in
 the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was measured. The study
 of these evolutionarily ancient compounds may represent an interesting
 paradigm for the application of chemical ecology and chemical biology
 to human health.DOC DONE!AbstractNonlinear-dynamical control techniques, also known as chaos
 control, have been used with great success to control a wide range of
 physical systems. Such techniques have been used to control the
 behavior of in vitro excitable biological tissue,
 suggesting their potential for clinical utility. However, the
 feasibility of using such techniques to control physiological processes
 has not been demonstrated in humans. Here we show that
 nonlinear-dynamical control can modulate human cardiac
 electrophysiological dynamics by rapidly stabilizing an unstable target
 rhythm. Specifically, in 52/54 control attempts in five patients, we
 successfully terminated pacing-induced period-2 atrioventricular-nodal
 conduction alternans by stabilizing the underlying unstable
 steady-state conduction. This proof-of-concept demonstration shows that
 nonlinear-dynamical control techniques are clinically feasible and
 provides a foundation for developing such techniques for more complex
 forms of clinical arrhythmia.DOC DONE!AbstractThe largest biological fractionations of stable carbon isotopes
 observed in nature occur during production of methane by methanogenic
 archaea. These fractionations result in substantial (as much as
 ≈70‰) shifts in δ13C relative to the initial
 substrate. We now report that a stable carbon isotopic fractionation of
 comparable magnitude (up to 70‰) occurs during oxidation of methyl
 halides by methylotrophic bacteria. We have demonstrated biological
 fractionation with whole cells of three methylotrophs (strain IMB-1,
 strain CC495, and strain MB2) and, to a lesser extent, with the
 purified cobalamin-dependent methyltransferase enzyme obtained from
 strain CC495. Thus, the genetic similarities recently reported between
 methylotrophs, and methanogens with respect to their pathways for
 C1-unit metabolism are also reflected in the carbon
 isotopic fractionations achieved by these organisms. We found that only
 part of the observed fractionation of carbon isotopes could be
 accounted for by the activity of the corrinoid methyltransferase
 enzyme, suggesting fractionation by enzymes further along the
 degradation pathway. These observations are of potential biogeochemical
 significance in the application of stable carbon isotope ratios to
 constrain the tropospheric budgets for the ozone-depleting
 halocarbons, methyl bromide and methyl chloride.DOC DONE!AbstractRecent studies have shown that the genes of the gibberellin (GA)
 biosynthesis pathway in the fungus Gibberella fujikuroi
 are organized in a cluster of at least seven genes.
 P450–1 is one of four cytochrome P450
 monooxygenase genes in this cluster. Disruption of the
 P450–1 gene in the GA-producing wild-type strain IMI
 58289 led to total loss of GA production. Analysis of the
 P450–1-disrupted mutants indicated that GA biosynthesis
 was blocked immediately after ent-kaurenoic acid. The
 function of the P450–1 gene product was investigated
 further by inserting the gene into mutants of G.
 fujikuroi that lack the entire GA gene cluster; the gene was
 highly expressed under GA production conditions in the absence of the
 other GA-biosynthesis genes. Cultures of transformants containing
 P450–1 converted
 ent-[14C]kaurenoic acid efficiently into
 [14C]GA14, indicating that P450–1 catalyzes
 four sequential steps in the GA-biosynthetic pathway:
 7β-hydroxylation, contraction of ring B by oxidation at C-6,
 3β-hydroxylation, and oxidation at C-7. The GA precursors
 ent-7α-hydroxy[14C]kaurenoic acid,
 [14C]GA12-aldehyde, and
 [14C]GA12 were also converted to
 [14C]GA14. In addition, there is an
 indication that P450–1 may also be involved in the formation of the
 kaurenolides and fujenoic acids, which are by-products of GA
 biosynthesis in G. fujikuroi. Thus, P450–1 displays
 remarkable multifunctionality and may be responsible for the formation
 of 12 products.DOC DONE!AbstractClostridium difficile, a causative agent of
 antibiotic-associated diarrhea and its potentially lethal form,
 pseudomembranous colitis, produces two large protein toxins that are
 responsible for the cellular damage associated with the disease. The
 level of toxin production appears to be critical for determining the
 severity of the disease, but the mechanism by which toxin synthesis is
 regulated is unknown. The product of a gene, txeR, that
 lies just upstream of the tox gene cluster was shown to
 be needed for tox gene expression in vivo
 and to activate promoter-specific transcription of the
 tox genes in vitro in conjunction with
 RNA polymerases from C. difficile, Bacillus
 subtilis, or Escherichia coli. TxeR was shown to
 function as an alternative sigma factor for RNA polymerase. Because
 homologs of TxeR regulate synthesis of toxins and a bacteriocin in
 other Clostridium species, TxeR appears to be a
 prototype for a novel mode of regulation of toxin genes.DOC DONE!AbstractBacterial pathogens manipulate host cells to promote pathogen
 survival and dissemination. We used a 22,571 human cDNA microarray to
 identify host pathways that are affected by the Salmonella
 enterica subspecies typhimurium phoP gene, a
 transcription factor required for virulence, by comparing the
 expression profiles of human monocytic tissue culture cells infected
 with either the wild-type bacteria or a phoP∷Tn10
 mutant strain. Both wild-type and phoP∷Tn10 bacteria
 induced a common set of genes, many of which are proinflammatory.
 Differentially expressed genes included those that affect host cell
 death, suggesting that the phoP regulatory system
 controls bacterial genes that alter macrophage survival. Subsequent
 experiments showed that the phoP∷Tn10 mutant strain
 is defective for killing both cultured and primary human macrophages
 but is able to replicate intracellularly. These experiments indicate
 that phoP plays a role in
 Salmonella-induced human macrophage cell death.DOC DONE!AbstractRecent epidemiological studies show a strong reduction in the
 incidence of Alzheimer's disease in patients treated with
 cholesterol-lowering statins. Moreover, elevated Aβ42 levels and the
 ɛ4 allele of the lipid-carrier apolipoprotein E are regarded as risk
 factors for sporadic and familial Alzheimer's disease. Here we
 demonstrate that the widely used cholesterol-lowering drugs simvastatin
 and lovastatin reduce intracellular and extracellular levels of Aβ42
 and Aβ40 peptides in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons and
 mixed cortical neurons. Likewise, guinea pigs treated with high doses
 of simvastatin showed a strong and reversible reduction of cerebral
 Aβ42 and Aβ40 levels in the cerebrospinal fluid and brain
 homogenate. These results suggest that lipids are playing an important
 role in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Lowered levels of
 Aβ42 may provide the mechanism for the observed reduced incidence of
 dementia in statin-treated patients and may open up avenues for
 therapeutic interventions.DOC DONE!AbstractInborn species' perceptual preferences are thought to serve as
 important guides for neonatal learning in most species of higher
 vertebrates. Although much work has been carried out on experiential
 contributions to the expression of such preferences, their neural and
 developmental correlates remain largely unexplored. Here we use
 embryonic neural transplants between two bird species, the Japanese
 quail and the domestic chicken, to demonstrate that an inborn auditory
 perceptual predisposition is transferable between species. The transfer
 of the perceptual preference was dissociated from changes to the
 vocalizations of the resulting animals (called chimeras), suggesting
 that experiential differences in auditory self-stimulation cannot
 explain the perceptual change. A preliminary localization of the
 effective brain region for the behavioral transfer by using a naturally
 occurring species-cell marker revealed that it is not contained within
 the major avian auditory pathways. To our knowledge, this is the first
 demonstration that abstract aspects of auditory perception can be
 transferred between species with transplants of the central nervous
 system.DOC DONE!AbstractWe show that when telencephalic neural progenitors are briefly
 exposed to bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) in culture, their
 developmental fate is changed from neuronal cells to astrocytic cells.
 BMP2 significantly reduced the number of cells expressing
 microtubule-associated protein 2, a neuronal marker, and cells
 expressing nestin, a marker for undifferentiated neural precursors, but
 BMP2 increased the number of cells expressing S100-β, an astrocytic
 marker. In telencephalic neuroepithelial cells, BMP2 up-regulated the
 expression of negative helix–loop–helix (HLH) factors Id1, Id3, and
 Hes-5 (where Hes is homologue of hairy and Enhancer of Split) that
 inhibited the transcriptional activity of neurogenic HLH transcription
 factors Mash1 and neurogenin. Ectopic expression of either Id1 or Id3
 (where Id is inhibitor of differentiation) inhibited neurogenesis of
 neuroepithelial cells, suggesting an important role for these HLH
 proteins in the BMP2-mediated changes in the neurogenic fate of these
 cells. Because gliogenesis in the brain and spinal cord, derived from
 implanted neural stem cells or induced by injury, is responsible for
 much of the failure of neuronal regeneration, this work may lead to a
 therapeutic strategy to minimize this problem.DOC DONE!AbstractFibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) promotes proliferation of
 neuroprogenitor cells in culture and is up-regulated within brain after
 injury. Using mice genetically deficient in FGF-2
 (FGF-2−/− mice), we addressed the importance of
 endogenously generated FGF-2 on neurogenesis within the
 hippocampus, a structure involved in spatial, declarative, and
 contextual memory, after seizures or ischemic injury. BrdUrd
 incorporation was used to mark dividing neuroprogenitor cells and NeuN
 expression to monitor their differentiation into neurons. In the
 wild-type strain, hippocampal FGF-2 increased after either kainic acid
 injection or middle cerebral artery occlusion, and the numbers of
 BrdUrd/NeuN-positive cells significantly increased on days 9 and 16
 as compared with the controls. In FGF-2−/− mice, BrdUrd
 labeling was attenuated after kainic acid or middle cerebral artery
 occlusion, as was the number of neural cells colabeled with both BrdUrd
 and NeuN. After FGF-2−/− mice were injected
 intraventricularly with a herpes simplex virus-1 amplicon vector
 carrying FGF-2 gene, the number of BrdUrd-labeled cells increased
 significantly to values equivalent to wild-type littermates after
 kainate seizures. These results indicate that endogenously
 synthesized FGF-2 is necessary and sufficient to stimulate
 proliferation and differentiation of neuroprogenitor cells in the adult
 hippocampus after brain insult.DOC DONE!AbstractIllumination of vertebrate rod photoreceptors leads to a decrease
 in the cytoplasmic cGMP concentration and closure of cyclic
 nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels. Except for Ca2+, which
 plays a negative feedback role in adaptation, and
 11-cis-retinal, supplied by the retinal pigment
 epithelium, all of the biochemical machinery of phototransduction is
 thought to be contained within rod outer segments without involvement
 of extrinsic regulatory molecules. Here we show that insulin-like
 growth factor-I (IGF-I), a paracrine factor released from the retinal
 pigment epithelium, alters phototransduction by rapidly increasing the
 cGMP sensitivity of CNG channels. The IGF-I-signaling pathway
 ultimately involves a protein tyrosine phosphatase that catalyzes
 dephosphorylation of a specific residue in the α-subunit of the rod
 CNG channel protein. IGF-I conjointly accelerates the kinetics and
 increases the amplitude of the light response, distinct from events
 that accompany adaptation. These effects of IGF-I could result from the
 enhancement of the cGMP sensitivity of CNG channels. Hence, in addition
 to long-term control of development and survival of rods, growth
 factors regulate phototransduction in the short term by modulating CNG
 channels.DOC DONE!AbstractThe vestibules of adult guinea pigs were lesioned with gentamicin
 and then treated with perilymphatic infusion of either of two growth
 factor mixtures (i.e., GF I or GF II). GF I contained transforming
 growth factor α (TGFα), insulin-like growth factor type one
 (IGF-1), and retinoic acid (RA), whereas GF II contained those three
 factors and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Treatment with GF I
 significantly enhanced vestibular hair cell renewal in ototoxin-damaged
 utricles and the maturation of stereociliary bundle morphology. The
 addition of brain-derived neurotrophic factor to the GF II infusion
 mixture resulted in the return of type 1 vestibular hair cells in
 ototoxin-damaged cristae, and improved vestibular function. These
 results suggest that growth factor therapy may be an effective
 treatment for balance disorders that are the result of hair cell
 dysfunction and/or loss.DOC DONE!AbstractThe II-III loop of the skeletal muscle dihydropyridine receptor
 (DHPR) α1S subunit is responsible for
 bidirectional-signaling interactions with the ryanodine receptor
 (RyR1): transmitting an orthograde, excitation–contraction (EC)
 coupling signal to RyR1 and receiving a retrograde, current-enhancing
 signal from RyR1. Previously, several reports argued for the importance
 of two distinct regions of the skeletal II-III loop (residues
 R681–L690 and residues L720–Q765, respectively), claiming for each a
 key function in DHPR–RyR1 communication. To address whether residues
 720–765 of the II-III loop are sufficient to enable skeletal-type
 (Ca2+ entry-independent) EC coupling and retrograde
 interaction with RyR1, we constructed a green fluorescent protein
 (GFP)-tagged chimera (GFP-SkLM) having rabbit skeletal (Sk) DHPR
 sequence except for a II-III loop (L) from the DHPR of the house fly,
 Musca domestica (M). The Musca II-III
 loop (75% dissimilarity to α1S) has no similarity to
 α1S in the regions R681–L690 and L720–Q765. GFP-SkLM
 expressed in dysgenic myotubes (which lack endogenous
 α1S subunits) was unable to restore EC coupling and
 displayed strongly reduced Ca2+ current densities despite
 normal surface expression levels and correct triad targeting
 (colocalization with RyR1). Introducing rabbit α1S
 residues L720–L764 into the Musca II-III loop of
 GFP-SkLM (substitution for Musca DHPR residues
 E724–T755) completely restored bidirectional coupling, indicating its
 dependence on α1S loop residues 720–764 but its
 independence from other regions of the loop. Thus, 45
 α1S-residues embedded in a very dissimilar background are
 sufficient to restore bidirectional coupling, indicating that these
 residues may be a site of a protein–protein interaction required for
 bidirectional coupling.DOC DONE!AbstractMembers of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family play a
 critical role in embryonic lung development and adult lung physiology.
 The in vivo investigation of the role FGFs play in the
 adult lung has been hampered because the constitutive pulmonary
 expression of these factors often has deleterious effects and
 frequently results in neonatal lethality. To circumvent these
 shortcomings, we expressed FGF-3 in the lungs under the control of the
 progesterone antagonist-responsive binary transgenic system. Four
 binary transgenic lines were obtained that showed ligand-dependent
 induction of FGF-3 with induced levels of FGF-3 expression dependent on
 the levels of expression of the GLp65 regulator as well as the dose of
 the progesterone antagonist, RU486, administered. FGF-3 expression in
 the adult mouse lung resulted in two phenotypes depending on the levels
 of induction of FGF-3. Low levels of FGF-3 expression resulted in
 massive free alveolar macrophage infiltration. High levels of FGF-3
 expression resulted in diffuse alveolar type II cell hyperplasia. Both
 phenotypes were reversible after the withdrawal of RU486. This system
 will be a valuable means of investigating the diverse roles of FGFs in
 the adult lung.DOC DONE!AbstractWe have used a fluorescence recovery after photobleaching
 (FRAP) technique to measure radial diffusion of myoglobin and other
 proteins in single skeletal and cardiac muscle cells. We compare the
 radial diffusivities, Dr (i.e., diffusion
 perpendicular to the long fiber axis), with longitudinal ones,
 Dl (i.e., parallel to the long fiber axis),
 both measured by the same technique, for myoglobin (17 kDa),
 lactalbumin (14 kDa), and ovalbumin (45 kDa). At 22°C,
 Dl for myoglobin is 1.2 ×
 10−7 cm2/s in soleus fibers
 and 1.1 × 10−7 cm2/s
 in cardiomyocytes. Dl for lactalbumin is
 similar in both cell types. Dr for myoglobin
 is 1.2 × 10−7 cm2/s in
 soleus fibers and 1.1 × 10−7
 cm2/s in cardiomyocytes and, again,
 similar for lactalbumin. Dl and
 Dr for ovalbumin are 0.5 ×
 10−7 cm2/s. In the case of
 myoglobin, both Dl and
 Dr at 37°C are about 80% higher than at
 22°C. We conclude that intracellular diffusivity of myoglobin and
 other proteins (i) is very low in striated muscle cells,
 ≈1/10 of the value in dilute protein solution, (ii)
 is not markedly different in longitudinal and radial direction, and
 (iii) is identical in heart and skeletal muscle. A Krogh
 cylinder model calculation holding for steady-state tissue oxygenation
 predicts that, based on these myoglobin diffusivities,
 myoglobin-facilitated oxygen diffusion contributes 4% to the overall
 intracellular oxygen transport of maximally exercising skeletal muscle
 and less than 2% to that of heart under conditions of high work load.DOC DONE!AbstractBetaine lipids are ether-linked, nonphosphorous glycerolipids that
 resemble the more commonly known phosphatidylcholine in overall
 structure. Betaine lipids are abundant in many eukaryotes such as
 nonseed plants, algae, fungi, and amoeba. Some of these organisms are
 entirely devoid of phosphatidylcholine and, instead, contain a betaine
 lipid such as
 diacylglyceryl-O-4′-(N,N,N,-trimethyl)homoserine.
 Recently, this lipid also was discovered in the photosynthetic purple
 bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides where it seems to
 replace phosphatidylcholine under phosphate-limiting growth conditions.
 This discovery provided the opportunity to study the biosynthesis of
 betaine lipids in a bacterial model system. Mutants of R.
 sphaeroides deficient in the biosynthesis of the betaine lipid
 were isolated, and two genes essential for this process,
 btaA and btaB, were identified. It is
 proposed that btaA encodes an
 S-adenosylmethionine:diacylglycerol
 3-amino-3-carboxypropyl transferase and btaB an
 S-adenosylmethionine-dependent
 N-methyltransferase. Both enzymatic activities can
 account for all reactions of betaine lipid head group biosynthesis.
 Because the equivalent reactions have been proposed for different
 eukaryotes, it seems likely that orthologs of
 btaA/btaB may be present in other
 betaine lipid-containing organisms.DOC DONE!AbstractBrassinosteroid-insensitive 1 (BRI1)
 of Arabidopsis thaliana encodes a cell surface receptor
 for brassinosteroids. Mutations in BRI1 severely affect plant growth
 and development. Activation tagging of a weak bri1
 allele (bri1-5) resulted in the
 identification of a new locus, brs1-1D.
 BRS1 is predicted to encode a secreted carboxypeptidase.
 Whereas a brs1 loss-of-function allele has no obvious
 mutant phenotype, overexpression of BRS1 can suppress
 bri1 extracellular domain mutants. Genetic analyses
 showed that brassinosteroids and a functional BRI1 protein kinase
 domain are required for suppression. In addition, overexpressed
 BRS1 missense mutants, predicted to abolish BRS1
 protease activity, failed to suppress
 bri1-5. Finally, the effects of BRS1 are
 selective: overexpression in either wild-type or two other receptor
 kinase mutants resulted in no phenotypic alterations. These results
 strongly suggest that BRS1 processes a protein involved in an early
 event in the BRI1 signaling.DOC DONE!AbstractZeatin is a naturally occurring cytokinin. Biosynthesis and
 metabolism studies of zeatin have been directed mostly at the
 trans isomer, although cis-zeatin and its
 riboside occur as major components in some plant species. It is not
 known whether parallel regulatory pathways exist for the two isomers.
 Based on the sequence of the gene ZOG1 encoding a
 trans-zeatin O-glucosyltransferase from
 Phaseolus (EC 2.4.1.203), a
 cis-zeatin-specific O-glucosyltransferase
 was isolated from maize. This gene, cisZOG1, contains an
 ORF of 1,401 nucleotides encoding a protein of 51.1 kDa with 41%
 identity to the Phaseolus ZOG1 protein. Unexpectedly,
 the maize enzyme recognizes as substrates cis-zeatin and
 UDP-glucose but not cis-ribosylzeatin,
 trans-zeatin, or trans-ribosylzeatin.
 This finding indicates the existence of cis-specific regulatory
 elements in plants and suggests that cis-zeatin and
 derivatives may be more important in cytokinin homeostasis than
 currently recognized.DOC DONE!AbstractDomestic animals have played a key role in human history. Despite
 their importance, however, the origins of most domestic species remain
 poorly understood. We assessed the phylogenetic history and population
 structure of domestic goats by sequencing a hypervariable segment (481
 bp) of the mtDNA control region from 406 goats representing 88 breeds
 distributed across the Old World. Phylogeographic analysis revealed
 three highly divergent goat lineages (estimated divergence >200,000
 years ago), with one lineage occurring only in eastern and southern
 Asia. A remarkably similar pattern exists in cattle, sheep, and pigs.
 These results, combined with recent archaeological findings, suggest
 that goats and other farm animals have multiple maternal origins with a
 possible center of origin in Asia, as well as in the Fertile Crescent.
 The pattern of goat mtDNA diversity suggests that all three lineages
 have undergone population expansions, but that the expansion was
 relatively recent for two of the lineages (including the Asian
 lineage). Goat populations are surprisingly less genetically structured
 than cattle populations. In goats only ≈10% of the mtDNA variation
 is partitioned among continents. In cattle the amount is ≥50%. This
 weak structuring suggests extensive intercontinental transportation of
 goats and has intriguing implications about the importance of goats in
 historical human migrations and commerce.DOC DONE!AbstractSpoken language is one of the most compact and structured ways to
 convey information. The linguistic ability to structure individual
 words into larger sentence units permits speakers to express a nearly
 unlimited range of meanings. This ability is rooted in speakers'
 knowledge of syntax and in the corresponding process of syntactic
 encoding. Syntactic encoding is highly automatized, operates largely
 outside of conscious awareness, and overlaps closely in time with
 several other processes of language production. With the use of
 positron emission tomography we investigated the cortical activations
 during spoken language production that are related to the syntactic
 encoding process. In the paradigm of restrictive scene description,
 utterances varying in complexity of syntactic encoding were elicited.
 Results provided evidence that the left Rolandic operculum, caudally
 adjacent to Broca's area, is involved in both sentence-level and local
 (phrase-level) syntactic encoding during speaking.DOC DONE!AbstractThe ability to recognize oneself in a mirror is an exceedingly rare
 capacity in the animal kingdom. To date, only humans and great apes
 have shown convincing evidence of mirror self-recognition. Two dolphins
 were exposed to reflective surfaces, and both demonstrated responses
 consistent with the use of the mirror to investigate marked parts of
 the body. This ability to use a mirror to inspect parts of the body is
 a striking example of evolutionary convergence with great apes and
 humans.DOC DONE!Abstract
We propose a framework to describe the cooperative
 orientational motions of water molecules in liquid water and around
 solute molecules in water solutions. From molecular dynamics (MD)
 simulation a new quantity “site-dipole field” is defined as the
 averaged orientation of water molecules that pass through each spatial
 position. In the site-dipole field of bulk water we found large
 vortex-like structures of more than 10 Å in size. Such coherent
 patterns persist more than 300 ps although the orientational memory of
 individual molecules is quickly lost. A 1-ns MD simulation of systems
 consisting of two amino acids shows that the fluctuations of
 site-dipole field of solvent are pinned around the amino acids,
 resulting in a stable dipole-bridge between side-chains of amino acids.
 The dipole-bridge is significantly formed even for the side-chain
 separation of 14 Å, which corresponds to five layers of water. The way
 that dipole-bridge forms sensitively depends on the side-chain
 orientations and thereby explains the specificity in the
 solvent-mediated interactions between biomolecules.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The hydrophobic interaction, the tendency for nonpolar molecules to
 aggregate in solution, is a major driving force in biology. In a direct
 approach to the physical basis of the hydrophobic effect, nanosecond
 molecular dynamics simulations were performed on increasing numbers of
 hydrocarbon solute molecules in water-filled boxes of different sizes.
 The intermittent formation of solute clusters gives a free energy that
 is proportional to the loss in exposed molecular surface area with a
 constant of proportionality of 45 ± 6
 cal/mol⋅Å2. The molecular surface area is the
 envelope of the solute cluster that is impenetrable by solvent and is
 somewhat smaller than the more traditional solvent-accessible surface
 area, which is the area transcribed by the radius of a solvent molecule
 rolled over the surface of the cluster. When we apply a factor relating
 molecular surface area to solvent-accessible surface area, we obtain 24
 cal/mol⋅Å2. Ours is the first direct calculation,
 to our knowledge, of the hydrophobic interaction from molecular
 dynamics simulations; the excellent qualitative and quantitative
 agreement with experiment proves that simple van der Waals interactions
 and atomic point-charge electrostatics account for the most important
 driving force in biology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Poly(4-vinyl-N-alkylpyridinium bromide) was
 covalently attached to glass slides to create a surface that kills
 airborne bacteria on contact. The antibacterial properties were
 assessed by spraying aqueous suspensions of bacterial cells on the
 surface, followed by air drying and counting the number of cells
 remaining viable (i.e., capable of growing colonies). Amino glass
 slides were acylated with acryloyl chloride, copolymerized with
 4-vinylpyridine, and N-alkylated with different alkyl
 bromides (from propyl to hexadecyl). The resultant surfaces, depending
 on the alkyl group, were able to kill up to 94 ± 4% of
 Staphylococcus aureus cells sprayed on them. A surface
 alternatively created by attaching poly(4-vinylpyridine) to a glass
 slide and alkylating it with hexyl bromide killed 94 ± 3% of the
 deposited S. aureus cells. On surfaces modified with
 N-hexylated poly(4-vinylpyridine), the numbers of viable
 cells of another Gram-positive bacterium, Staphylococcus
 epidermidis, as well as of the Gram-negative bacteria
 Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia
 coli, dropped more than 100-fold compared with the original
 amino glass. In contrast, the number of viable bacterial cells did not
 decline significantly after spraying on such common materials as
 ceramics, plastics, metals, and wood.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The electron microprobe allows elemental abundances to be mapped at
 the μm scale, but until now high resolution mapping of light elements
 has been challenging. Modifications of electron microprobe procedure
 permit fine-scale mapping of carbon. When applied to permineralized
 fossils, this technique allows simultaneous mapping of organic
 material, major matrix-forming elements, and trace elements with
 μm-scale resolution. The resulting data make it possible to test
 taphonomic hypotheses for the formation of anatomically preserved
 silicified fossils, including the role of trace elements in the
 initiation of silica precipitation and in the prevention of organic
 degradation. The technique allows one to understand the localization of
 preserved organic matter before undertaking destructive chemical
 analyses and, because it is nondestructive, offers a potentially
 important tool for astrobiological investigations of samples returned
 from Mars or other solar system bodies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effect of desert dust on cloud properties and precipitation has
 so far been studied solely by using theoretical models, which predict
 that rainfall would be enhanced. Here we present observations showing
 the contrary; the effect of dust on cloud properties is to inhibit
 precipitation. Using satellite and aircraft observations we show that
 clouds forming within desert dust contain small droplets and produce
 little precipitation by drop coalescence. Measurement of the size
 distribution and the chemical analysis of individual Saharan dust
 particles collected in such a dust storm suggest a possible mechanism
 for the diminished rainfall. The detrimental impact of dust on rainfall
 is smaller than that caused by smoke from biomass burning or
 anthropogenic air pollution, but the large abundance of desert dust in
 the atmosphere renders it important. The reduction of precipitation
 from clouds affected by desert dust can cause drier soil, which in turn
 raises more dust, thus providing a possible feedback loop to further
 decrease precipitation. Furthermore, anthropogenic changes of land use
 exposing the topsoil can initiate such a desertification feedback
 process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
New carbon and nitrogen stable isotope values for human remains
 dating to the mid-Upper Paleolithic in Europe indicate significant
 amounts of aquatic (fish, mollusks, and/or birds) foods in some of
 their diets. Most of this evidence points to exploitation of inland
 freshwater aquatic resources in particular. By contrast, European
 Neandertal collagen carbon and nitrogen stable isotope values do not
 indicate significant use of inland aquatic foods but instead show that
 they obtained the majority of their protein from terrestrial
 herbivores. In agreement with recent zooarcheological analyses, the
 isotope results indicate shifts toward a more broad-spectrum
 subsistence economy in inland Europe by the mid-Upper Paleolithic
 period, probably associated with significant population increases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Survey evidence through the early 1990s generally suggests a
 reduction in disability in the elderly population of the United States.
 Because the evidence is not fully consistent, several authors have
 speculated about whether disability declines will continue. This paper
 reports results from the 1999 National Long-Term Care Survey on
 disability trends from 1982 through 1999. It is found that disability
 continued to decline in the 1994 to 1999 period, and that the decline
 was greater in the 1990s than in the 1980s. The disability decline from
 1982 to 1989 was 0.26% per year, from 1989 to 1994 it was 0.38% per
 year, and from 1994 to 1999 it was 0.56% per year. In addition,
 disability declined by a greater percentage for blacks than for
 nonblacks over the 1989 to 1999 period.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Poly(4-vinyl-N-alkylpyridinium bromide) was
 covalently attached to glass slides to create a surface that kills
 airborne bacteria on contact. The antibacterial properties were
 assessed by spraying aqueous suspensions of bacterial cells on the
 surface, followed by air drying and counting the number of cells
 remaining viable (i.e., capable of growing colonies). Amino glass
 slides were acylated with acryloyl chloride, copolymerized with
 4-vinylpyridine, and N-alkylated with different alkyl
 bromides (from propyl to hexadecyl). The resultant surfaces, depending
 on the alkyl group, were able to kill up to 94 ± 4% of
 Staphylococcus aureus cells sprayed on them. A surface
 alternatively created by attaching poly(4-vinylpyridine) to a glass
 slide and alkylating it with hexyl bromide killed 94 ± 3% of the
 deposited S. aureus cells. On surfaces modified with
 N-hexylated poly(4-vinylpyridine), the numbers of viable
 cells of another Gram-positive bacterium, Staphylococcus
 epidermidis, as well as of the Gram-negative bacteria
 Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia
 coli, dropped more than 100-fold compared with the original
 amino glass. In contrast, the number of viable bacterial cells did not
 decline significantly after spraying on such common materials as
 ceramics, plastics, metals, and wood.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Helper-dependent adenoviral vectors deleted of all viral
 coding sequences have shown an excellent gene expression profile in a
 variety of animal models, as well as a reduced toxicity after systemic
 delivery. What is still unclear is whether long-term expression and
 therapeutic dosages of these vectors can be obtained also in the
 presence of a preexisting immunity to adenovirus, a condition found in
 a high proportion of the adult human population. In this study we
 performed intramuscular delivery of helper-dependent vectors carrying
 mouse erythropoietin as a marker transgene. We found that low doses of
 helper-dependent adenoviral vectors can direct long-lasting gene
 expression in the muscles of fully immunocompetent mice. The best
 performance—i.e., 100% of treated animals showing sustained
 expression after 4 months—was achieved with the latest generation
 helper-dependent backbones, which replicate and package at high
 efficiency during vector propagation. Moreover, efficient and prolonged
 transgene expression after intramuscular injection was observed with
 limited vector load also in animals previously immunized against the
 same adenovirus serotype. These data suggest that human gene therapy by
 intramuscular delivery of helper-dependent adenoviral vectors is
 feasible.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This report describes the development of an electroactive mask that
 permits the patterning of two different cell populations to a single
 substrate. This mask is based on a self-assembled monolayer of
 alkanethiolates on gold that could be switched from a state that
 prevents the attachment of cells to a state that promotes the
 integrin-mediated attachment of cells. Monolayers were patterned into
 regions having this electroactive monolayer and a second set of regions
 that were adhesive. After Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts had attached to the
 adhesive regions of this substrate, the second set of regions was
 activated electrically to permit the attachment of a second population
 of fibroblast cells. This method provides a general strategy for
 patterning the attachment of multiple cell types and will be important
 for studying heterotypic cell-cell interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The majority of extracellular physiologic signaling molecules
 act by stimulating GTP-binding protein (G-protein)-coupled receptors
 (GPCRs). To monitor directly the formation of the active state of a
 prototypical GPCR, we devised a method to site specifically attach
 fluorescein to an endogenous cysteine (Cys-265) at the
 cytoplasmic end of transmembrane 6 (TM6) of the β2
 adrenergic receptor (β2AR), adjacent to the
 G-protein-coupling domain. We demonstrate that this tag reports
 agonist-induced conformational changes in the receptor, with agonists
 causing a decline in the fluorescence intensity of
 fluorescein-β2AR that is proportional to the biological
 efficacy of the agonist. We also find that agonists alter the
 interaction between the fluorescein at Cys-265 and
 fluorescence-quenching reagents localized to different molecular
 environments of the receptor. These observations are consistent with a
 rotation and/or tilting of TM6 on agonist activation. Our studies,
 when compared with studies of activation in rhodopsin, indicate a
 general mechanism for GPCR activation; however, a notable difference is
 the relatively slow kinetics of the conformational changes in the
 β2AR, which may reflect the different energetics of
 activation by diffusible ligands.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CheY, a response regulator protein in bacterial chemotaxis, serves
 as a prototype for the analysis of response regulator function in
 two-component signal transduction. Phosphorylation of a conserved
 aspartate at the active site mediates a conformational change at a
 distal signaling surface that modulates interactions with the flagellar
 motor component FliM, the sensor kinase CheA, and the phosphatase CheZ.
 The objective of this study was to probe the conformational coupling
 between the phosphorylation site and the signaling surface of CheY in
 the reverse direction by quantifying phosphorylation activity in the
 presence and absence of peptides of CheA, CheZ, and FliM that
 specifically interact with CheY. Binding of these peptides dramatically
 impacted autophosphorylation of CheY by small molecule phosphodonors,
 which is indicative of reverse signal propagation in CheY.
 Autodephosphorylation and substrate affinity, however, were not
 significantly affected. Kinetic characterization of several CheY
 mutants suggested that conserved residues Thr-87, Tyr-106, and Lys-109,
 implicated in the activation mechanism, are not essential for
 conformational coupling. These findings provide structural and
 conceptual insights into the mechanism of CheY activation. Our results
 are consistent with a multistate thermodynamic model of response
 regulator activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The integrin αLβ2 has three different domains in its headpiece
 that have been suggested to either bind ligand or to regulate ligand
 binding. One of these, the inserted or I domain, has a fold similar to
 that of small G proteins. The I domain of the αM and α2 subunits
 has been crystallized in both open and closed conformations; however,
 the αL I domain has been crystallized in only the closed
 conformation. We hypothesized that the αL domain also would have an
 open conformation, and that this would be the ligand binding
 conformation. Therefore, we introduced pairs of cysteine residues to
 form disulfides that would lock the αL I domain in either the open or
 closed conformation. Locking the I domain open resulted in a 9,000-fold
 increase in affinity to intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1),
 which was reversed by disulfide reduction. By contrast, the affinity of
 the locked closed conformer was similar to wild type. Binding
 completely depended on Mg2+. Orders of affinity were
 ICAM-1 > ICAM-2 > ICAM-3. The
 kon, koff, and
 KD values for the locked open I domain were
 within 1.5-fold of values previously determined for the αLβ2
 complex, showing that the I domain is sufficient for full affinity
 binding to ICAM-1. The locked open I domain antagonized
 αLβ2-dependent adhesion in vitro, lymphocyte homing
 in vivo, and firm adhesion but not rolling on high
 endothelial venules. The ability to reversibly lock a protein fold in
 an active conformation with dramatically increased affinity opens
 vistas in therapeutics and proteomics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previously we have characterized type IB DNA topoisomerase V (topo
 V) in the hyperthermophile Methanopyrus kandleri. The
 enzyme has a powerful topoisomerase activity and is abundant in
 M. kandleri. Here we report two characterizations of
 topo V. First, we found that its N-terminal domain has sequence
 homology with both eukaryotic type IB topoisomerases and the integrase
 family of tyrosine recombinases. The C-terminal part of the sequence
 includes 12 repeats, each repeat consisting of two similar but distinct
 helix-hairpin-helix motifs; the same arrangement is seen in
 recombination protein RuvA and mammalian DNA polymerase β. Second, on
 the basis of sequence homology between topo V and polymerase β, we
 predict and demonstrate that topo V possesses apurinic/apyrimidinic
 (AP) site-processing activities that are important in base excision DNA
 repair: (i) it incises the phosphodiester backbone at
 the AP site, and (ii) at the AP endonuclease cleaved AP
 site, it removes the 5′ 2-deoxyribose 5-phosphate moiety so that a
 single-nucleotide gap with a 3′-hydroxyl and 5′-phosphate can be filled
 by a DNA polymerase. Topo V is thus the prototype for a new subfamily
 of type IB topoisomerases and is the first example of a topoisomerase
 with associated DNA repair activities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The crystal structure of anthranilate synthase (AS) from
 Serratia marcescens, a mesophilic bacterium, has been
 solved in the presence of its substrates, chorismate and glutamine, and
 one product, glutamate, at 1.95 Å, and with its bound feedback
 inhibitor, tryptophan, at 2.4 Å. In comparison with the AS structure
 from the hyperthermophile Sulfolobus solfataricus, the
 S. marcescens structure shows similar subunit structures
 but a markedly different oligomeric organization. One crystal form of
 the S. marcescens enzyme displays a bound pyruvate as
 well as a putative anthranilate (the nitrogen group is ambiguous) in
 the TrpE subunit. It also confirms the presence of a covalently bound
 glutamyl thioester intermediate in the TrpG subunit. The
 tryptophan-bound form reveals that the inhibitor binds at a site
 distinct from that of the substrate, chorismate. Bound tryptophan
 appears to prevent chorismate binding by a demonstrable conformational
 effect, and the structure reveals how occupancy of only one of the two
 feedback inhibition sites can immobilize the catalytic activity of both
 TrpE subunits. The presence of effectors in the structure provides a
 view of the locations of some of the amino acid residues in the active
 sites. Our findings are discussed in terms of the previously described
 AS structure of S. solfataricus, mutational data
 obtained from enteric bacteria, and the enzyme's mechanism of action.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) enhances
 transcription of genes encoding enzymes of unsaturated fatty acid
 biosynthesis in liver. SREBP-1c mRNA is known to increase when cells
 are treated with agonists of liver X receptor (LXR), a nuclear hormone
 receptor, and to decrease when cells are treated with unsaturated fatty
 acids, the end products of SREBP-1c action. Here we show that
 unsaturated fatty acids lower SREBP-1c mRNA levels in part by
 antagonizing the actions of LXR. In cultured rat hepatoma cells,
 arachidonic acid and other fatty acids competitively inhibited
 activation of the endogenous SREBP-1c gene by an LXR
 ligand. Arachidonate also blocked the activation of a synthetic
 LXR-dependent promoter in transfected human embryonic kidney-293 cells.
 In vitro, arachidonate and other unsaturated fatty acids
 competitively blocked activation of LXR, as reflected by a fluorescence
 polarization assay that measures ligand-dependent binding of LXR to a
 peptide derived from a coactivator. These data offer a potential
 mechanism that partially explains the long-known ability of dietary
 unsaturated fatty acids to decrease the synthesis and secretion of
 fatty acids and triglycerides in livers of humans and other animals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Ras family of GTPases is a collection of molecular switches
 that link receptors on the plasma membrane to signaling pathways that
 regulate cell proliferation and differentiation. The accessory
 GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) negatively regulate the cell
 signaling by increasing the slow intrinsic GTP to GDP hydrolysis rate
 of Ras. Mutants of Ras are found in 25–30% of human tumors. The most
 dramatic property of these mutants is their insensitivity to the
 negative regulatory action of GAPs. All known oncogenic mutants of Ras
 map to a small subset of amino acids. Gln-61 is particularly important
 because virtually all mutations of this residue eliminate sensitivity
 to GAPs. Despite its obvious importance for carcinogenesis, the role of
 Gln-61 in the GAP-stimulated GTPase activity of Ras has remained a
 mystery. Our molecular dynamics simulations of the p21ras–p120GAP–GTP
 complex suggest that the local structure around the catalytic region
 can be different from that revealed by the x-ray crystal structure. We
 find that the carbonyl oxygen on the backbone of the arginine finger
 supplied in trans by p120GAP (Arg-789) interacts with a water molecule
 in the active site that is forming a bridge between the NH2
 group of the Gln-61 and the γ-phosphate of GTP. Thus, Arg-789 may
 play a dual role in generating the nucleophile as well as stabilizing
 the transition state for P—O bond cleavage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The combined structural and biochemical studies on Lac repressor
 bound to operator DNA have demonstrated the central role of the hinge
 helices in operator bending and the induction mechanism. We have
 constructed a covalently linked dimeric Lac-headpiece that binds DNA
 with four orders of magnitude higher affinity as compared with the
 monomeric form. This enabled a detailed biochemical and structural
 study of Lac binding to its cognate wild-type and selected DNA
 operators. The results indicate a profound contribution of hinge
 helices to the stability of the protein–DNA complex and highlight
 their central role in operator recognition. Furthermore, protein–DNA
 interactions in the minor groove appear to modulate hinge helix
 stability, thus accounting for affinity differences and protein-induced
 DNA bending among the various operator sites. Interestingly, the
 in vitro DNA-binding affinity of the reported dimeric
 Lac construct can de readily modulated by simple adjustment of redox
 conditions, thus rendering it a potential artificial gene regulator.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Escherichia coli biotin repressor binds to the
 biotin operator to repress transcription of the biotin biosynthetic
 operon. In this work, a structure determined by x-ray crystallography
 of a complex of the repressor bound to biotin, which also functions as
 an activator of DNA binding by the biotin repressor (BirA), is
 described. In contrast to the monomeric aporepressor, the complex is
 dimeric with an interface composed in part of an extended β-sheet.
 Model building, coupled with biochemical data, suggests that this is
 the dimeric form of BirA that binds DNA. Segments of three surface
 loops that are disordered in the aporepressor structure are located in
 the interface region of the dimer and exhibit greater order than was
 observed in the aporepressor structure. The results suggest that the
 corepressor of BirA causes a disorder-to-order transition that is a
 prerequisite to repressor dimerization and DNA binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Apoptotic DNA fragmentation is mediated by a
 caspase-activated DNA fragmentation factor (DFF)40. Expression and
 folding of DFF40 require the presence of DFF45, which also acts as a
 nuclease inhibitor before DFF40 activation by execution caspases. The
 N-terminal domains (NTDs) of both proteins are homologous, and their
 interaction plays a key role in the proper functioning of this
 two-component system. Here we report that the NTD of DFF45 alone is
 unstructured in solution, and its folding is induced upon binding to
 DFF40 NTD. Therefore, folding of both proteins regulates the formation
 of the DFF40/DFF45 complex. The solution structure of the
 heterodimeric complex between NTDs of DFF40 and DFF45 reported here
 shows that the mutual chaperoning includes the formation of an
 extensive network of intermolecular interactions that bury a
 hydrophobic cluster inside the interface, surrounded by intermolecular
 salt bridges.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Surface proteins of Gram-positive bacteria play important roles
 during the pathogenesis of human infections and require sortase for
 anchoring to the cell-wall envelope. Sortase cleaves surface proteins
 at the LPXTG motif and catalyzes the formation of an amide bond between
 the carboxyl group of threonine (T) and the amino group of cell-wall
 crossbridges. The NMR structure of sortase reveals a unique β-barrel
 structure, in which the active-site sulfhydryl of cysteine-184 is
 poised for ionization by histidine-120, presumably enabling the
 resultant thiolate to attack the LPXTG peptide. Calcium binding near
 the active site stimulates catalysis, possibly by altering the
 conformation of a surface loop that recognizes newly translocated
 polypeptides. The structure suggests a mechanistic relationship to the
 papain/cathepsin proteases and should facilitate the design of new
 antiinfective agents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The vast majority of HIV-1 infections in Africa are caused by the A
 and C viral subtypes rather than the B subtype prevalent in the United
 States and Western Europe. Genomic differences between subtypes give
 rise to sequence variations in the encoded proteins, including the
 HIV-1 protease. Because some amino acid polymorphisms occur at sites
 that have been associated with drug resistance in the B subtype, it is
 important to assess the effectiveness of protease inhibitors that have
 been developed against different subtypes. Here we report the enzymatic
 characterization of HIV-1 proteases with sequences found in
 drug-naïve Ugandan adults. The A protease used in these studies
 differs in seven positions
 (I13V/E35D/M36I/R41K/R57K/H69K/L89M) in relation to the
 consensus B subtype protease. Another protease containing a subset of
 these amino acid polymorphisms (M36I/R41K/H69K/L89M), which are
 found in subtype C and other HIV subtypes, also was studied. Both
 proteases were found to have similar catalytic constants,
 kcat, as the B subtype. The C subtype
 protease displayed lower Km values against
 two different substrates resulting in a higher (2.4-fold) catalytic
 efficiency than the B subtype protease. Indinavir, ritonavir,
 saquinavir, and nelfinavir inhibit the A and C subtype proteases with
 2.5–7-fold and 2–4.5-fold weaker Kis than
 the B subtype. When all factors are taken into consideration it is
 found that the C subtype protease has the highest vitality (4–11
 higher than the B subtype) whereas the A subtype protease exhibits
 values ranging between 1.5 and 5. These results point to a higher
 biochemical fitness of the A and C proteases in the presence of
 existing inhibitors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A mechanistic model for lactose/H+ symport via the
 lactose permease of Escherichia coli proposed recently
 indicates that the permease must be protonated to bind ligand with high
 affinity. Moreover, in the ground state, the symported H+
 is shared between His-322 (helix X) and Glu-269 (helix VIII), whereas
 Glu-325 (helix X) is charge-paired with Arg-302 (helix IX). Substrate
 binding at the outer surface induces a conformational change that leads
 to transfer of the H+ to Glu-325 and reorientation of the
 binding site to the inner surface. After release of the substrate,
 Glu-325 is deprotonated on the inside because of rejuxtapositioning
 with Arg-302. To test the role of Arg-302 in the mechanism, the
 catalytic properties of mutants Arg-302→Ala and Arg-302→Ser were
 studied. Both mutants are severely defective in active lactose
 transport, as well as in efflux or influx down a concentration
 gradient, translocation modes that involve net H+ movement.
 In marked contrast, the mutants catalyze equilibrium exchange of
 lactose and bind ligand with high affinity. These characteristics are
 remarkably analogous to those of permease mutants with neutral
 replacements for Glu-325, a residue that plays a direct role in
 H+ translocation. These observations lend strong support
 for the argument that Arg-302 interacts with Glu-325 to facilitate
 deprotonation of the carboxylic acid during turnover.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The docking protein FRS2 is a major downstream effector that links
 fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and nerve growth factor receptors with
 the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling cascade. In this
 report, we demonstrate that FRS2 also plays a pivotal role in
 FGF-induced recruitment and activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase
 (PI3-kinase). We demonstrate that tyrosine phosphorylation of FRS2α
 leads to Grb2-mediated complex formation with the docking protein Gab1
 and its tyrosine phosphorylation, resulting in the recruitment and
 activation of PI3-kinase. Furthermore, Grb2 bound to
 tyrosine-phosphorylated FRS2 through its SH2 domain interacts primarily
 via its carboxyl-terminal SH3 domain with a proline-rich region in Gab1
 and via its amino-terminal SH3 domain with the nucleotide exchange
 factor Sos1. Assembly of FRS2α:Grb2:Gab1 complex induced by FGF
 stimulation results in activation of PI3-kinase and downstream effector
 proteins such as the S/T kinase Akt, whose cellular localization and
 activity are regulated by products of PI3-kinase. These experiments
 reveal a unique mechanism for generation of signal diversity by growth
 factor-induced coordinated assembly of a multidocking protein complex
 that can activate the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade to
 induce cell proliferation and differentiation, and PI3-kinase to
 activate a mediator of a cell survival pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cleavage and polyadenylation of mRNA 3′ ends in
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires several factors, one
 of which is cleavage factor I (CF I). Purification of CF I activity
 from yeast extract has implicated numerous proteins as functioning in
 both cleavage and/or polyadenylation. Through reconstitution of
 active CF I from separately expressed and purified proteins, we show
 that CF I contains five subunits, Rna14, Rna15, Pcf11, Clp1, and Hrp1.
 These five are necessary and sufficient for reconstitution of cleavage
 activity in vitro when mixed with CF II, and for
 specific polyadenylation when mixed with polyadenylation factor I,
 purified poly(A) polymerase, and poly(A) binding protein. Analysis of
 the individual protein–protein interactions supports an architectural
 model for CF I in which Pcf11 simultaneously interacts with Rna14,
 Rna15, and Clp1, whereas Rna14 bridges Rna15 and Hrp1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The tumor suppressor Brca1 plays an important role in protecting
 mammalian cells against genomic instability, but little is known about
 its modes of action. In this work we demonstrate that recombinant human
 Brca1 protein binds strongly to DNA, an activity conferred by a domain
 in the center of the Brca1 polypeptide. As a result of this binding,
 Brca1 inhibits the nucleolytic activities of the Mre11/Rad50/Nbs1
 complex, an enzyme implicated in numerous aspects of double-strand
 break repair. Brca1 displays a preference for branched DNA structures
 and forms protein–DNA complexes cooperatively between multiple DNA
 strands, but without DNA sequence specificity. This fundamental
 property of Brca1 may be an important part of its role in DNA repair
 and transcription.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Leishmania parasites lack a purine biosynthetic
 pathway and depend on surface nucleoside and nucleobase transporters to
 provide them with host purines. Leishmania donovani
 possess two closely related genes that encode high affinity
 adenosine-pyrimidine nucleoside transporters LdNT1.1 and LdNT1.2 and
 that transport the toxic adenosine analog tubercidin in addition to the
 natural substrates. In this study, we have characterized a
 drug-resistant clonal mutant of L. donovani (TUBA5) that
 is deficient in LdNT1 transport and consequently resistant to
 tubercidin. In TUBA5 cells, the LdNT1.2 genes had the
 same sequence as wild-type cells. However, because
 LdNT1.2 mRNA is not detectable in either wild-type or
 TUBA5 promastigotes, LdNT1.2 does not contribute to nucleoside
 transport in this stage of the life cycle. In contrast, the TUBA5 cells
 were compound heterozygotes at the LdNT1.1 locus
 containing two mutant alleles that encompassed distinct point
 mutations, each of which impaired transport function. One of the mutant
 LdNT1.1 alleles encoded a G183D substitution in
 predicted TM 5, and the other allele contained a C337Y change in
 predicted TM 7. Whereas G183D and C337Y mutants had only slightly
 elevated adenosine Km values, the severe
 impairment in transport resulted from drastically (≈20-fold) reduced
 Vmax values. Because these transporters were
 correctly targeted to the plasma membrane, the reduction in
 Vmax apparently resulted from a defect in
 translocation. Strikingly, G183 was essential for pyrimidine nucleoside
 but not adenosine transport. A mutant transporter with a G183A
 substitution had an altered substrate specificity, exhibiting robust
 adenosine transport but undetectable uridine uptake. These results
 suggest that TM 5 is likely to form part of the nucleoside
 translocation pathway in LdNT1.1
DOC DONE!Abstract
The hierarchical properties of potential energy landscapes have
 been used to gain insight into thermodynamic and kinetic properties of
 protein ensembles. It also may be possible to use them to direct
 computational searches for thermodynamically stable macroscopic states,
 i.e., computational protein folding. To this end, we have developed a
 top-down search procedure in which conformation space is recursively
 dissected according to the intrinsic hierarchical structure of a
 landscape's effective-energy barriers. This procedure generates an
 inverted tree similar to the disconnectivity graphs generated by local
 minima-clustering methods, but it fundamentally differs in the manner
 in which the portion of the tree that is to be computationally explored
 is selected. A key ingredient is a branch-selection algorithm that
 takes advantage of statistically predictive properties of the landscape
 to guide searches down the tree branches that are most likely to lead
 to the physically relevant macroscopic states. Using the computational
 folding of a β-hairpin-forming peptide as an example, we show that
 such predictive properties indeed exist and can be used for structure
 prediction by free-energy global minimization.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recombinant type 3 ryanodine receptor (RyR3) has been purified in
 quantities sufficient for structural characterization by cryoelectron
 microscopy and three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction. Two cDNAs were
 prepared and expressed in HEK293 cells, one encoding the wild-type RyR3
 and the other encoding RyR3 containing glutathione
 S-transferase (GST) fused to its amino terminus
 (GST-RyR3). RyR3 was purified from detergent-solubilized transfected
 cells by affinity chromatography using 12.6-kDa FK506-binding protein
 in the form of a GST fusion as the affinity ligand. Purification of
 GST-RyR3 was achieved by affinity chromatography by using
 glutathione-Sepharose. Purified recombinant RyR3 and GST-RyR3 proteins
 exhibited high-affinity [3H]ryanodine binding that was
 sensitive to activation by Ca2+ and caffeine and to
 inhibition by Mg2+. 3D reconstructions of both recombinant
 RyR3 and GST-RyR3 appeared very similar to that of the native RyR3
 purified from bovine diaphragm. Comparison of the 3D reconstructions of
 RyR3 and GST-RyR3 revealed that the GST domains and, hence, the amino
 termini of the RyR3 subunits are located in the “clamp”
 structures that form the corners of the square-shaped cytoplasmic
 region of homotetrameric RyR3. This study describes the 3D
 reconstruction of a recombinant ryanodine receptor and it demonstrates
 the potential of this technology for characterizing functional and
 structural perturbations introduced by site-directed mutagenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ligand transport through myoglobin (Mb) has been observed by using
 optically heterodyne-detected transient grating spectroscopy.
 Experimental implementation using diffractive optics has provided
 unprecedented sensitivity for the study of protein motions by enabling
 the passive phase locking of the four beams that constitute the
 experiment, and an unambiguous separation of the Real and Imaginary
 parts of the signal. Ligand photodissociation of carboxymyoglobin
 (MbCO) induces a sequence of events involving the relaxation of the
 protein structure to accommodate ligand escape. These motions show up
 in the Real part of the signal. The ligand (CO) transport process
 involves an initial, small amplitude, change in volume, reflecting the
 transit time of the ligand through the protein, followed by a
 significantly larger volume change with ligand escape to the
 surrounding water. The latter process is well described by a single
 exponential process of 725 ± 15 ns at room temperature. The
 overall dynamics provide a distinctive signature that can be understood
 in the context of segmental protein fluctuations that aid ligand escape
 via a few specific cavities, and they suggest the existence of discrete
 escape pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several human genetic cataracts have been linked recently to point
 mutations in the γD crystallin gene. Here we provide a molecular
 basis for lens opacity in two genetic cataracts and suggest that the
 opacity occurs because of the spontaneous crystallization of the mutant
 proteins. Such crystallization of endogenous proteins
 leading to pathology is an unusual event. Measurements of the
 solubility curves of crystals of the Arg-58 to His and Arg-36 to Ser
 mutants of γD crystallin show that the mutations dramatically lower
 the solubility of the protein. Furthermore, the crystal nucleation rate
 of the mutants is enhanced considerably relative to that of the
 wild-type protein. It should be noted that, although there is a marked
 difference in phase behavior, there is no significant difference in
 protein conformation among the three proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The nucleocapsid protein (NC) of HIV type 1 is a nucleic acid
 chaperone that facilitates the rearrangement of nucleic acids into
 conformations containing the maximum number of complementary base
 pairs. We use an optical tweezers instrument to stretch single DNA
 molecules from the helix to coil state at room temperature in the
 presence of NC and a mutant form (SSHS NC) that lacks the two zinc
 finger structures present in NC. Although both NC and SSHS NC
 facilitate annealing of complementary strands through electrostatic
 attraction, only NC destabilizes the helical form of DNA and reduces
 the cooperativity of the helix-coil transition. In particular, we find
 that the helix-coil transition free energy at room temperature is
 significantly reduced in the presence of NC. Thus, upon NC binding, it
 is likely that thermodynamic fluctuations cause continuous melting and
 reannealing of base pairs so that DNA strands are able to rapidly
 sample configurations to find the lowest energy state. The reduced
 cooperativity allows these fluctuations to occur in the middle of
 complex double-stranded structures. The reduced stability and
 cooperativity, coupled with the electrostatic attraction generated by
 the high charge density of NC, is responsible for the nucleic acid
 chaperone activity of this protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In native apomyoglobin, His-24 cannot be protonated, although at pH
 4 the native protein forms a molten globule folding intermediate in
 which the histidine residues are readily protonated. The inability to
 protonate His-24 in the native protein dramatically affects the
 unfolding/refolding kinetics, as demonstrated by simulations for a
 simple model. Kinetic data for wild type and for a mutant lacking
 His-24 are analyzed. The pKa values of histidine residues
 in native apomyoglobin are known from earlier studies, and the average
 histidine pKa in the molten globule is determined from the
 pH dependence of the equilibrium between the native and molten globule
 forms. Analysis of the pH-dependent unfolding/refolding kinetics
 reveals that the average pKa of the histidine residues,
 including His-24, is closely similar in the folding transition state to
 the value found in the molten globule intermediate. Consequently,
 protonation of His-24 is not a barrier to refolding of the molten
 globule to the native protein. Instead, the normal pKa of
 His-24 in the transition state, coupled with its inaccessibility in the
 native state, promotes fast unfolding at low pH. The analysis of the
 wild-type results is confirmed and extended by using the wild-type
 parameters to fit the unfolding kinetics of a mutant lacking His-24.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Caspase-3 is synthesized as a dormant proenzyme and is maintained
 in an inactive conformation by an Asp-Asp-Asp “safety-catch”
 regulatory tripeptide contained within a flexible loop near the
 large-subunit/small-subunit junction. Removal of this “safety
 catch” results in substantially enhanced autocatalytic maturation as
 well as increased vulnerability to proteolytic activation by upstream
 proteases in the apoptotic pathway such as caspase-9 and
 granzyme B. The safety catch functions through multiple ionic
 interactions that are disrupted by acidification, which occurs in the
 cytosol of cells during the early stages of apoptosis. We
 propose that the caspase-3 safety catch is a key regulatory checkpoint
 in the apoptotic cascade that regulates terminal events in the
 caspase cascade by modulating the triggering of caspase-3 activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alternative splicing leads to the expression of multiple
 isoforms of the subunits (IFNAR1 and IFNAR2) of the type I IFN
 receptor. Here we describe two transcripts representing extracellular
 forms of ovine IFNAR1 and show that soluble extracellular forms of both
 IFNAR2 and IFNAR1, prepared in recombinant form in Escherichia
 coli, have antiviral (AV) activity in the absence of IFN.
 Exposure of Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells to the extracellular domain
 (R2E) of IFNAR2 at concentrations as low as 10 nM afforded complete
 protection against vesicular stomatitis virus and led to the rapid
 activation of the transcription factors ISGF3 and GAF. Although R2E can
 bind IFN (Kd ≈70 nM), activity was
 observed irrespective of whether or not ligand was present. R2E was
 inactive on mouse L929 cells but active on L929 cells expressing a
 membraneanchored, ovine/human chimeric IFNAR2 with an ovine
 extracellular domain. The data suggest that AV activity is conferred by
 the ability of soluble R2E to associate with the transfected IFNAR2
 subunit rather than resident murine IFNAR1. Soluble extracellular forms
 of IFNAR1 have lower AV activity than R2E on Madin-Darby bovine kidney
 cells but are less species-specific and protect wild-type L929 cells as
 efficiently as the transfected cell line, presumably by interacting
 with one of the murine receptor subunits.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK-1) is a central mediator
 of the cell signaling between phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and
 various intracellular serine/threonine kinases including
 Akt/protein kinase B (PKB), p70 S6 kinases, and protein kinase C.
 Recent studies with cell transfection experiments have implied that
 PDK-1 may be involved in various cell functions including cell growth
 and apoptosis. However, despite its pivotal role in cellular
 signalings, the in vivo functions of PDK-1 in a
 multicellular system have rarely been investigated. Here, we have
 isolated Drosophila PDK-1 (dPDK-1)
 mutants and characterized the in vivo roles of the
 kinase. Drosophila deficient in the
 dPDK-1 gene exhibited lethality and an apoptotic
 phenotype in the embryonic stage. Conversely, overexpression of
 dPDK-1 increased cell and organ size in a
 Drosophila PI3K-dependent manner. dPDK-1
 not only could activate Drosophila Akt/PKB
 (Dakt1), but also substitute the in vivo
 functions of its mammalian ortholog to activate Akt/PKB. This
 functional interaction between dPDK-1 and
 Dakt1 was further confirmed through genetic analyses in
 Drosophila. On the other hand, cAMP-dependent protein
 kinase, which has been proposed as a possible target of
 dPDK-1, did not interact with dPDK-1. In
 conclusion, our findings provide direct evidence that
 dPDK-1 regulates cell growth and apoptosis
 during Drosophila development via the PI3K-dependent
 signaling pathway and demonstrate our Drosophila system
 to be a powerful tool for elucidating the in vivo
 functions and targets of PDK-1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
How receptors catalyze exchange of GTP for GDP bound to the Gα
 subunit of trimeric G proteins is not known. One proposal is that the
 receptor uses the G protein's βγ heterodimer as a lever, tilting
 it to pull open the guanine nucleotide binding pocket of Gα. To test
 this possibility, we designed a mutant Gα that would bind to βγ
 in the tilted conformation. To do so, we excised a helical turn (four
 residues) from the N-terminal region of αs, the α
 subunit of GS, the stimulatory regulator of adenylyl
 cyclase. In the presence, but not in the absence, of transiently
 expressed β1 and γ2, this mutant
 (αsΔ), markedly stimulated cAMP accumulation. This
 effect depended on the ability of the coexpressed β protein to
 interact normally with the lip of the nucleotide binding pocket of
 αsΔ. We substituted alanine for an aspartate in
 β1 that binds to a lysine (K206) in the lip of the α
 subunit's nucleotide binding pocket. Coexpressed with
 αsΔ and γ2, this mutant,
 β1-D228A, elevated cAMP much less than did
 β1-wild type; it did bind to αsΔ
 normally, however, as indicated by its unimpaired ability to target
 αsΔ to the plasma membrane. We conclude that βγ can
 activate αs and that this effect probably involves both a
 tilt of βγ relative to αs and interaction of β with
 the lip of the nucleotide binding pocket. We speculate that receptors
 use a similar mechanism to activate trimeric G proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dystrobrevin is a component of the dystrophin-associated protein
 complex and has been shown to interact directly with dystrophin,
 α1-syntrophin, and the sarcoglycan complex. The precise role of
 α-dystrobrevin in skeletal muscle has not yet been determined. To
 study α-dystrobrevin's function in skeletal muscle, we used the
 yeast two-hybrid approach to look for interacting proteins. Three
 overlapping clones were identified that encoded an intermediate
 filament protein we subsequently named desmuslin (DMN). Sequence
 analysis revealed that DMN has a short N-terminal domain, a conserved
 rod domain, and a long C-terminal domain, all common features of type 6
 intermediate filament proteins. A positive interaction between DMN and
 α-dystrobrevin was confirmed with an in vitro
 coimmunoprecipitation assay. By Northern blot analysis, we find that
 DMN is expressed mainly in heart and skeletal muscle, although there is
 some expression in brain. Western blotting detected a 160-kDa protein
 in heart and skeletal muscle. Immunofluorescent microscopy localizes
 DMN in a stripe-like pattern in longitudinal sections and in a mosaic
 pattern in cross sections of skeletal muscle. Electron microscopic
 analysis shows DMN colocalized with desmin at the Z-lines. Subsequent
 coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed an interaction with desmin.
 Our findings suggest that DMN may serve as a direct linkage between the
 extracellular matrix and the Z-discs (through plectin) and may play an
 important role in maintaining muscle cell integrity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a polypeptide which, in addition to
 its effect on nerve cells, is believed to play a role in inflammatory
 responses and in tissue repair. Because fibroblasts represent the main
 target and effector cells in these processes, to investigate whether
 NGF is involved in lung and skin tissue repair, we studied the effect
 of NGF on fibroblast migration, proliferation, collagen metabolism,
 modulation into myofibroblasts, and contraction of collagen gel. Both
 skin and lung fibroblasts were found to produce NGF and to express
 tyrosine kinase receptor (trkA) under basal conditions, whereas the
 low-affinity p75 receptor was expressed only after prolonged NGF
 exposure. NGF significantly induced skin and lung fibroblast migration
 in an in vitro model of wounded fibroblast and skin
 migration in Boyden chambers. Nevertheless NGF did not influence either
 skin or lung fibroblast proliferation, collagen production, or
 metalloproteinase production or activation. In contrast,
 culture of both lung and skin fibroblasts with NGF modulated their
 phenotype into myofibroblasts. Moreover, addition of NGF to both
 fibroblast types embedded in collagen gel increased their contraction.
 Fibrotic human lung or skin tissues displayed immunoreactivity for NGF,
 trkA, and p75. These data show a direct pro-fibrogenic effect of NGF on
 skin and lung fibroblasts and therefore indicate a role for NGF in
 tissue repair and fibrosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurotrophic factor deprivation causes apoptosis by a
 mechanism that requires macromolecular synthesis. This fact suggests
 that gene expression is necessary to achieve cell death. To identify
 mRNA that is expressed in apoptotic cells we used subtractive
 hybridization with cDNA prepared from neuronal pheochromocytoma cells.
 Monoamine oxidase (MAO) expression was increased in cells during nerve
 growth factor withdrawal-induced apoptosis. The increased
 apoptosis and induction of MAO was prevented by inhibition of
 the p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway. MAO may
 contribute to the apoptotic process because inhibition of MAO
 activity suppressed cell death. Together, these data indicate that MAO
 may be a target of pro-apoptotic signal transduction by the p38
 MAP kinase pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The family of p21-activated protein kinases (PAKs) is composed of
 serine–threonine kinases whose activity is regulated by the small
 guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) Rac and Cdc42. In mammalian cells,
 PAKs have been implicated in the regulation of mitogen-activated
 protein cascades, cellular morphological and cytoskeletal changes,
 neurite outgrowth, and cell apoptosis. Although the ability of
 Cdc42 and Rac GTPases to activate PAK is well established, relatively
 little is known about the negative regulation of PAK or the identity of
 PAK cellular targets. Here, we describe the identification and
 characterization of a human PAK-interacting protein, hPIP1. hPIP1
 contains G protein β-like WD repeats and shares sequence homology
 with the essential fission yeast PAK regulator, Skb15, as well as the
 essential budding yeast protein, MAK11. Interaction of hPIP1 with PAK1
 inhibits the Cdc42/Rac-stimulated kinase activity through the
 N-terminal regulatory domains of PAK1. Cotransfection of hPIP1 in
 mammalian cells inhibits PAK-mediated c-Jun N-terminal kinase and
 nuclear factor κ B signaling pathways. Our results demonstrate that
 hPIP1 is a negative regulator of PAK and PAK signaling pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tissue remodeling often reflects alterations in local mechanical
 conditions and manifests as an integrated response among the different
 cell types that share, and thus cooperatively manage, an extracellular
 matrix. Here we examine how two different cell types, one that
 undergoes the stress and the other that primarily remodels the matrix,
 might communicate a mechanical stress by using airway cells as a
 representative in vitro system. Normal stress is imposed
 on bronchial epithelial cells in the presence of unstimulated lung
 fibroblasts. We show that (i) mechanical stress can be
 communicated from stressed to unstressed cells to elicit a remodeling
 response, and (ii) the integrated response of two cell
 types to mechanical stress mimics key features of airway remodeling
 seen in asthma: namely, an increase in production of fibronectin,
 collagen types III and V, and matrix metalloproteinase type 9
 (MMP-9) (relative to tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1,
 TIMP-1). These observations provide a paradigm to use in understanding
 the management of mechanical forces on the tissue level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Little is known about stem cell biology or the specialized
 environments or niches believed to control stem cell renewal and
 differentiation in self-renewing tissues of the body. Functional assays
 for stem cells are available only for hematopoiesis and
 spermatogenesis, and the microenvironment, or niche, for hematopoiesis
 is relatively inaccessible, making it difficult to analyze donor stem
 cell colonization events in recipients. In contrast, the recently
 developed spermatogonial stem cell assay system allows quantitation of
 individual colonization events, facilitating studies of stem cells and
 their associated microenvironment. By using this assay system, we found
 a 39-fold increase in male germ-line stem cells during development from
 birth to adult in the mouse. However, colony size or area of
 spermatogenesis generated by neonate and adult stem cells, 2–3 months
 after transplantation into adult tubules, was similar (∼0.5
 mm2). In contrast, the microenvironment in the immature pup
 testis was 9.4 times better than adult testis in allowing colonization
 events, and the area colonized per donor stem cell, whether from adult
 or pup, was about 4.0 times larger in recipient pups than adults. These
 factors facilitated the restoration of fertility by donor stem cells
 transplanted to infertile pups. Thus, our results demonstrate that stem
 cells and their niches undergo dramatic changes in the postnatal
 testis, and the microenvironment of the pup testis provides a more
 hospitable environment for transplantation of male germ-line stem
 cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effect of neoplastic transformation on the response to
 genotoxic stress is of significant clinical interest. In this study, we
 offer genetic evidence that the apoptotic response of
 neoplastically transformed cells to DNA damage requires RhoB, a member
 of the Rho family of actin cytoskeletal regulators. Targeted deletion
 of the rhoB gene did not affect cell cycle arrest in
 either normal or transformed cells after exposure to doxorubicin or
 gamma irradiation, but rendered transformed cells resistant to
 apoptosis. This effect was specific insofar as
 rhoB deletion did not affect apoptotic
 susceptibility to agents that do not damage DNA. However,
 rhoB deletion also affected apoptotic
 susceptibility to Taxol, an agent that disrupts microtubule dynamics.
 We have demonstrated that RhoB alteration mediates the
 proapoptotic and antineoplastic effects of farnesyltransferase
 inhibitors, and we show here that RhoB alteration is also crucial for
 farnesyltransferase inhibitors to sensitize neoplastic cells to DNA
 damage-induced cell death. We found RhoB to be an important determinant
 of long-term survival in vitro and tumor response
 in vivo after gamma irradiation. Our findings identify a
 pivotal role for RhoB in the apoptotic response of neoplastic
 cells to DNA damage at a novel regulatory point that may involve the
 actin cytoskeleton.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Sma and Mad related (Smad) family proteins are critical
 mediators of the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily
 signaling. After TGF-β-mediated phosphorylation and association with
 Smad4, Smad2 moves to the nucleus and activates expression of specific
 genes through cooperative interactions with DNA-binding proteins,
 including members of the winged-helix family of transcription factors,
 forkhead activin signal transducer (FAST)-1 and FAST2. TGF-β has also
 been described to activate other signaling pathways, such as the c-Jun
 N-terminal Kinase (JNK) pathway. Here, we show that activation of JNK
 cascade blocked the ability of Smad2 to mediate TGF-β-dependent
 activation of the FAST proteins. This inhibitory activity is mediated
 through the transcriptional factor c-Jun, which enhances the
 association of Smad2 with the nuclear transcriptional corepressor
 TG-interacting factor (TGIF), thereby interfering with the assembly of
 Smad2 and the coactivator p300 in response to TGF-β signaling.
 Interestingly, c-Jun directly binds to the nuclear transcriptional
 corepressor TGIF and is required for TGIF-mediated repression of Smad2
 transcriptional activity. These studies thus reveal a mechanism for
 suppression of Smad2 signaling pathway by JNK cascade through
 transcriptional repression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There are at least three short-range gap repressors in the
 precellular Drosophila embryo: Krüppel, Knirps,
 and Giant. Krüppel and Knirps contain related repression motifs,
 PxDLSxH and PxDLSxK, respectively, which mediate interactions with the
 dCtBP corepressor protein. Here, we present evidence that Giant might
 also interact with dCtBP. The misexpression of Giant in ventral regions
 of transgenic embryos results in the selective repression of
 eve stripe 5. A stripe5-lacZ transgene
 exhibits an abnormal staining pattern in dCtBP mutants
 that is consistent with attenuated repression by Giant. The analysis of
 Gal4-Giant fusion proteins identified a minimal repression domain that
 contains a sequence motif, VLDLS, which is conserved in at least two
 other sequence-specific repressors. Removal of this sequence from the
 native Giant protein does not impair its repression activity in
 transgenic embryos. We propose that Giant-dCtBP interactions might be
 indirect and mediated by an unknown bZIP subunit that forms a
 heteromeric complex with Giant. We also suggest that the VLDLS motif
 recruits an as yet unidentified corepressor protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To assess whether heterozygosity of the donor cell genome was a
 general parameter crucial for long-term survival of cloned animals, we
 tested the ability of embryonic stem (ES) cells with either an inbred
 or F1 genetic background to generate cloned mice by nuclear
 transfer. Most clones derived from five F1 ES cell lines
 survived to adulthood. In contrast, clones from three inbred ES cell
 lines invariably died shortly after birth due to respiratory failure.
 Comparison of mice derived from nuclear cloning, in which a complete
 blastocyst is derived from a single ES cell, and tetraploid blastocyst
 complementation, in which only the inner cell mass is formed from a few
 injected ES cells, allows us to determine which phenotypes depend on
 the technique or on the characteristics of the ES cell line. Neonatal
 lethality also has been reported in mice entirely derived from inbred
 ES cells that had been injected into tetraploid blastocysts (ES
 cell-tetraploids). Like inbred clones, ES cell-tetraploid pups derived
 from inbred ES cell lines died shortly after delivery with signs of
 respiratory distress. In contrast, most ES cell-tetraploid neonates,
 derived from six F1 ES cell lines, developed into fertile
 adults. Cloned pups obtained from both inbred and F1 ES
 cell nuclei frequently displayed increased placental and birth weights
 whereas ES cell-tetraploid pups were of normal weight. The potency of
 F1 ES cells to generate live, fertile adults was not lost
 after either long-term in vitro culture or serial gene
 targeting events. We conclude that genetic heterozygosity is a crucial
 parameter for postnatal survival of mice that are entirely derived from
 ES cells by either nuclear cloning or tetraploid embryo
 complementation. In addition, our results demonstrate that tetraploid
 embryo complementation using F1 ES cells represents a
 simple, efficient procedure for deriving animals with complex genetic
 alterations without the need for a chimeric intermediate.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hymenoptera attach to smooth surfaces with a flexible pad, the
 arolium, between the claws. Here we investigate its movement in Asian
 weaver ants (Oecophylla smaragdina) and honeybees
 (Apis mellifera).   When ants run upside down on a
 smooth surface, the arolium is unfolded and folded back with each step.
 Its extension is strictly coupled with the retraction of the claws.
 Experimental pull on the claw-flexor tendon revealed that the
 claw-flexor muscle not only retracts the claws, but also moves the
 arolium. The elicited arolium movement comprises (i)
 about a 90° rotation (extension) mediated by the interaction of the
 two rigid pretarsal sclerites arcus and manubrium and
 (ii) a lateral expansion and increase in volume. In
 severed legs of O. smaragdina ants, an increase in
 hemolymph pressure of 15 kPa was sufficient to inflate the arolium to
 its full size. Apart from being actively extended, an arolium in
 contact also can unfold passively when the leg is subject to a pull
 toward the body.   We propose a combined mechanical–hydraulic
 model for arolium movement: (i) the arolium is engaged
 by the action of the unguitractor, which mechanically extends the
 arolium; (ii) compression of the arolium gland reservoir
 pumps liquid into the arolium; (iii) arolia partly in
 contact with the surface are unfolded passively when the legs are
 pulled toward the body; and (iv) the arolium deflates
 and moves back to its default position by elastic recoil of the
 cuticle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Insect damage on fossil leaves from the Central Rocky Mountains,
 United States, documents the response of herbivores to changing
 regional climates and vegetation during the late Paleocene (humid, warm
 temperate to subtropical, predominantly deciduous), early Eocene (humid
 subtropical, mixed deciduous and evergreen), and middle Eocene
 (seasonally dry, subtropical, mixed deciduous and thick-leaved
 evergreen). During all three time periods, greater herbivory occurred
 on taxa considered to have short rather than long leaf life spans,
 consistent with studies in living forests that demonstrate the insect
 resistance of long-lived, thick leaves. Variance in herbivory frequency
 and diversity was highest during the middle Eocene, indicating the
 increased representation of two distinct herbivory syndromes: one for
 taxa with deciduous, palatable foliage, and the other for hosts with
 evergreen, thick-textured, small leaves characterized by elevated
 insect resistance. Leaf galling, which is negatively correlated with
 moisture today, apparently increased during the middle Eocene, whereas
 leaf mining decreased.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The poison frogs (family Dendrobatidae) are terrestrial anuran
 amphibians displaying a wide range of coloration and toxicity. These
 frogs generally have been considered to be aposematic, but relatively
 little research has been carried out to test the predictions of this
 hypothesis. Here we use a comparative approach to test one prediction
 of the hypothesis of aposematism: that coloration will evolve in tandem
 with toxicity. Recently, we developed a phylogenetic hypothesis of the
 evolutionary relationships among representative species of poison
 frogs, using sequences from three regions of mitochondrial DNA. In our
 analysis, we use that DNA-based phylogeny and comparative analysis of
 independent contrasts to investigate the correlation between coloration
 and toxicity in the poison frog family (Dendrobatidae). Information on
 the toxicity of different species was obtained from the literature. Two
 different measures of the brightness and extent of coloration were
 used. (i) Twenty-four human observers were asked to rank
 different photos of each different species in the analysis in terms of
 contrast to a leaf-littered background. (ii) Color
 photos of each species were scanned into a computer and a computer
 program was used to obtain a measure of the contrast of the colors of
 each species relative to a leaf-littered background. Comparative
 analyses of the results were carried out with two different models of
 character evolution: gradual change, with branch lengths proportional
 to the amount of genetic change, and punctuational change, with all
 change being associated with speciation events. Comparative analysis
 using either method or model indicated a significant correlation
 between the evolution of toxicity and coloration across this family.
 These results are consistent with the hypothesis that coloration in
 this group is aposematic.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genomic era revolutionized evolutionary biology. The enigma of
 genotypic-phenotypic diversity and biodiversity evolution of genes,
 genomes, phenomes, and biomes, reviewed here, was central in the
 research program of the Institute of Evolution, University of Haifa,
 since 1975. We explored the following questions. (i) How
 much of the genomic and phenomic diversity in nature is adaptive and
 processed by natural selection? (ii) What is the origin
 and evolution of adaptation and speciation processes under
 spatiotemporal variables and stressful macrogeographic and
 microgeographic environments? We advanced ecological genetics into
 ecological genomics and analyzed globally ecological, demographic, and
 life history variables in 1,200 diverse species across life, thousands
 of populations, and tens of thousands of individuals tested mostly for
 allozyme and partly for DNA diversity. Likewise, we tested thermal,
 chemical, climatic, and biotic stresses in several model organisms.
 Recently, we introduced genetic maps and quantitative trait loci to
 elucidate the genetic basis of adaptation and speciation. The
 genome–phenome holistic model was deciphered by the global regressive,
 progressive, and convergent evolution of subterranean mammals. Our
 results indicate abundant genotypic and phenotypic diversity in nature.
 The organization and evolution of molecular and organismal diversity in
 nature at global, regional, and local scales are nonrandom and
 structured; display regularities across life; and are positively
 correlated with, and partly predictable by, abiotic and biotic
 environmental heterogeneity and stress. Biodiversity evolution, even in
 small isolated populations, is primarily driven by natural selection,
 including diversifying, balancing, cyclical, and purifying selective
 regimes, interacting with, but ultimately overriding, the effects of
 mutation, migration, and stochasticity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Molecular and morphological data have important roles in
 illuminating evolutionary history. DNA data often yield well resolved
 phylogenies for living taxa, but are generally unattainable for
 fossils. A distinct advantage of morphology is that some types of
 morphological data may be collected for extinct and extant taxa.
 Fossils provide a unique window on evolutionary history and may
 preserve combinations of primitive and derived characters that are not
 found in extant taxa. Given their unique character complexes, fossils
 are critical in documenting sequences of character transformation over
 geologic time and may elucidate otherwise ambiguous patterns of
 evolution that are not revealed by molecular data alone. Here, we
 employ a methodological approach that allows for the integration of
 molecular and paleontological data in deciphering one of the most
 innovative features in the evolutionary history of mammals—laryngeal
 echolocation in bats. Molecular data alone, including an expanded data
 set that includes new sequences for the A2AB gene, suggest that
 microbats are paraphyletic but do not resolve whether laryngeal
 echolocation evolved independently in different microbat lineages or
 evolved in the common ancestor of bats and was subsequently lost in
 megabats. When scaffolds from molecular phylogenies are incorporated
 into parsimony analyses of morphological characters, including
 morphological characters for the Eocene taxa
 Icaronycteris, Archaeonycteris,
 Hassianycteris, and Palaeochiropteryx,
 the resulting trees suggest that laryngeal echolocation evolved in the
 common ancestor of fossil and extant bats and was subsequently lost in
 megabats. Molecular dating suggests that crown-group bats last shared a
 common ancestor 52 to 54 million years ago.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Wolbachia are bacteria that live in the cells of
 various invertebrate species to which they cause a wide range of
 effects on physiology and reproduction. We investigated the effect of
 Wolbachia infection in the parasitic wasp,
 Asobara tabida Nees (Hymenoptera, Braconidae). In the 13
 populations tested, all individuals proved to be infected by
 Wolbachia. The removal of Wolbachia by
 antibiotic treatment had a totally unexpected effect—aposymbiotic
 female wasps were completely incapable of producing mature oocytes and
 therefore could not reproduce. In contrast, oogenesis was not affected
 in treated Asobara citri, a closely related species that
 does not harbor Wolbachia. No difference between natural
 symbiotic and cured individuals was found for other adult traits
 including male fertility, locomotor activity, and size, indicating that
 the effect on oogenesis is highly specific. We argue that indirect
 effects of the treatments used in our study (antibiotic toxicity or
 production of toxic agents) are very unlikely to explain the sterility
 of females, and we present results showing a direct relationship
 between oocyte production and Wolbachia density in
 females. We conclude that Wolbachia is necessary for
 oogenesis in these A. tabida strains, and this
 association would seem to be the first example of a transition from
 facultative to obligatory symbiosis in
 arthropod–Wolbachia associations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The orchid Dactylorhiza sambucina shows a stable and
 dramatic flower-color polymorphism, with both yellow- and
 purple-flowered individuals present in natural populations throughout
 the range of the species in Europe. The evolutionary significance of
 flower-color polymorphisms found in many rewardless orchid species has
 been discussed at length, but the mechanisms responsible for their
 maintenance remain unclear. Laboratory experiments have suggested that
 behavioral responses by pollinators to lack of reward availability
 might result in a reproductive advantage for rare-color morphs.
 Consequently, we performed an experiment varying the relative frequency
 of the two color morphs of D. sambucina to test whether
 rare morph advantage acted in the natural habitat of the species. We
 show here clear evidence from this manipulative experiment that
 rare-color morphs have reproductive advantage through male and
 female components. This is the first demonstration, to our knowledge,
 that negative frequency-dependent selection through pollinator
 preference for rare morphs can cause the maintenance of a flower-color
 polymorphism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Organisms producing resting stages provide unique opportunities for
 reconstructing the genetic history of natural populations. Diapausing
 seeds and eggs often are preserved in large numbers, representing
 entire populations captured in an evolutionary inert state for decades
 and even centuries. Starting from a natural resting egg bank of the
 waterflea Daphnia, we compare the evolutionary rates of
 change in an adaptive quantitative trait with those in selectively
 neutral DNA markers, thus effectively testing whether the observed
 genetic changes in the quantitative trait are driven by natural
 selection. The population studied experienced variable and well
 documented levels of fish predation over the past 30 years and shows
 correlated genetic changes in phototactic behavior, a
 predator-avoidance trait that is related to diel vertical migration.
 The changes mainly involve an increased plasticity response upon
 exposure to predator kairomone, the direction of the changes being in
 agreement with the hypothesis of adaptive evolution. Genetic
 differentiation through time was an order of magnitude higher for the
 studied behavioral trait than for neutral markers (DNA
 microsatellites), providing strong evidence that natural selection was
 the driving force behind the observed, rapid, evolutionary changes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Global diversity curves reflect more than just the number of taxa
 that have existed through time: they also mirror variation in the
 nature of the fossil record and the way the record is reported. These
 sampling effects are best quantified by assembling and analyzing large
 numbers of locality-specific biotic inventories. Here, we introduce a
 new database of this kind for the Phanerozoic fossil record of marine
 invertebrates. We apply four substantially distinct analytical methods
 that estimate taxonomic diversity by quantifying and correcting for
 variation through time in the number and nature of inventories.
 Variation introduced by the use of two dramatically different counting
 protocols also is explored. We present sampling-standardized diversity
 estimates for two long intervals that sum to 300 Myr (Middle
 Ordovician-Carboniferous; Late Jurassic-Paleogene). Our new curves
 differ considerably from traditional, synoptic curves. For example,
 some of them imply unexpectedly low late Cretaceous and early Tertiary
 diversity levels. However, such factors as the current emphasis in the
 database on North America and Europe still obscure our view of the
 global history of marine biodiversity. These limitations will be
 addressed as the database and methods are refined.
DOC DONE!Abstract
BIMD of Aspergillus nidulans belongs to a
 highly conserved protein family implicated, in filamentous fungi, in
 sister-chromatid cohesion and DNA repair. We show here that BIMD is
 chromosome associated at all stages, except from late prophase through
 anaphase, during mitosis and meiosis, and is involved in several
 aspects of both programs. First, bimD+
 function must be executed during S through M. Second, in
 bimD6 germlings, mitotic nuclear divisions and overall
 cellular program occur more rapidly than in wild type. Thus, BIMD, an
 abundant chromosomal protein, is a negative regulator of normal cell
 cycle progression. Third, bimD6 reduces the level of
 mitotic interhomolog recombination but does not alter the ratio between
 crossover and noncrossover outcomes. Moreover, bimD6 is
 normal for intrachromosomal recombination. Therefore, BIMD is probably
 not involved in the enzymology of recombinational repair per
 se. Finally, during meiosis, staining of the
 Sordaria ortholog Spo76p delineates robust chromosomal
 axes, whereas BIMD stains all chromatin. SPO76 and
 bimD are functional homologs with respect to their roles
 in mitotic chromosome metabolism but not in meiosis. We propose that
 BIMD exerts its diverse influences on cell cycle progression as well as
 chromosome morphogenesis and recombination by modulating chromosome
 structure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chromosome-specific gene regulation is known thus far only as a
 mechanism to equalize the transcriptional activity of the single male X
 chromosome with that of the two female X chromosomes. In
 Drosophila melanogaster, a complex including the five
 Male-Specific Lethal (MSL) proteins, “paints” the male X
 chromosome, mediating its hypertranscription. Here, with the molecular
 cloning of Painting of fourth
 (Pof), we describe a previously uncharacterized
 gene encoding a chromosome-specific protein in
 Drosophila. Unlike the MSL proteins, POF paints an
 autosome, the fourth chromosome of Drosophila
 melanogaster. Chromosome translocation analysis shows that the
 binding depends on an initiation site in the proximal region of
 chromosome 4 and spreads in cis to involve the entire chromosome. The
 spreading depends on sequences or structures specific to chromosome 4
 and cannot extend to parts of other chromosomes translocated to the
 fourth. Spreading can also occur in trans to a paired homologue that
 lacks the initiation region. In the related species Drosophila
 busckii, POF paints the entire X chromosome exclusively in
 males, suggesting relationships between the fourth chromosome and the X
 and between POF complexes and dosage-compensation complexes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Polymorphisms in the prion protein gene are known to affect prion
 disease incubation times and susceptibility in humans and mice.
 However, studies with inbred lines of mice show that large differences
 in incubation times occur even with the same amino acid sequence of the
 prion protein, suggesting that other genes may contribute to the
 observed variation. To identify these loci we analyzed 1,009 animals
 from an F2 intercross between two strains of mice, CAST/Ei and
 NZW/OlaHSd, with significantly different incubation periods when
 challenged with RML scrapie prions. Interval mapping identified three
 highly significantly linked regions on chromosomes 2, 11, and 12;
 composite interval mapping suggests that each of these regions includes
 multiple linked quantitative trait loci. Suggestive evidence for
 linkage was obtained on chromosomes 6 and 7. The sequence conservation
 between the mouse and human genome suggests that identification of
 mouse prion susceptibility alleles may have direct relevance to
 understanding human susceptibility to bovine spongiform encephalopathy
 (BSE) infection, as well as identifying key factors in the molecular
 pathways of prion pathogenesis. However, the demonstration of other
 major genetic effects on incubation period suggests the need for
 extreme caution in interpreting estimates of variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob
 disease epidemic size utilizing existing epidemiological models.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified homologs of a human BMP receptor-associated
 molecule BRAM1 in Caenorhabditis
 elegans. One of them, BRA-1, has been found to bind DAF-1, the
 type I receptor in the DAF-7 transforming growth factor-β pathway
 through the conserved C-terminal region. As analyzed using a
 BRA-1∷GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion gene product, the
 bra-1 gene is expressed in amphid neurons such as ASK,
 ASI, and ASG, where daf-1 is also expressed. A
 loss-of-function mutation in bra-1 exhibits robust
 suppression of the Daf-c phenotype caused by the DAF-7 pathway
 mutations. We propose that BRA-1 represents a novel class of
 receptor-associated molecules that negatively regulate transforming
 growth factor-β pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report the isolation of generalized transducing phages for
 Streptomyces species able to transduce chromosomal
 markers or plasmids between derivatives of Streptomyces
 coelicolor, the principal genetic model system for this
 important bacterial genus. We describe four apparently distinct phages
 (DAH2, DAH4, DAH5, and DAH6) that are capable of transducing multiple
 chromosomal markers at frequencies ranging from 10−5 to
 10−9 per plaque-forming unit. The phages contain DNA
 ranging in size from 93 to 121 kb and mediate linked transfer of
 genetic loci at neighboring chromosomal sites sufficiently close to be
 packaged within the same phage particle. The key to our ability to
 demonstrate transduction by these phages was the establishment of
 conditions expected to severely reduce superinfection killing during
 the selection of transductants. The host range of these phages, as
 measured by the ability to form plaques, extends to species as
 distantly related as Streptomyces
avermitilis and Streptomyces
verticillus, which are among the most commercially
 important species of this genus. Transduction of plasmid DNA between
 S. coelicolor and S. verticillus was
 observed at frequencies of ≈10−4 transductants per
 colony-forming unit.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microglia arise from CD45+ bone marrow precursors that
 colonize the fetal brain and play a key role in central nervous system
 inflammatory conditions. We report that parenchymal microglia are
 uncommitted myeloid progenitors of immature dendritic cells and
 macrophages by several criteria, including surface expression of
 “empty” class II MHC protein and their cysteine protease
 (cathepsin) profile. Microglia express receptors for stem cell factor
 and can be skewed toward more dendritic cell or macrophage-like
 profiles in response to the lineage growth factors
 granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor or macrophage
 colony-stimulating factor. Thus, in contrast to other organs, where
 terminally differentiated populations of resident dendritic cells
 and/or macrophages outnumber colonizing precursors, the majority
 of microglia within the brain remain in an undifferentiated
 state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Trimolecular interactions between the T cell antigen receptor and
 MHC/peptide complexes, together with costimulatory molecules and
 cytokines, control the initial activation of naïve T cells and
 determine whether the helper precursor cell differentiates into either
 T helper (TH)1 or TH2 effector cells. We now present evidence that
 regulatory CD8+ T cells provide another level of control of
 TH phenotype during further evolution of immune responses. These
 regulatory CD8+ T cells are induced by antigen-triggered
 CD4+ TH1 cells during T cell vaccination and, in
 vitro, distinguish mature TH1 from TH2 cells in a T cell
 antigen receptor Vβ-specific and Qa-1-restricted manner. In
 vivo, protection from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
 (EAE) induced by T cell vaccination depends on CD8+ T
 cells, and myelin basic protein-reactive TH1 Vβ8+ clones,
 but not TH2 Vβ8+ clones, used as vaccine T cells, protect
 animals from subsequent induction of EAE. Moreover, in
 vivo depletion of CD8+ T cells during the first
 episode of EAE results in skewing of the TH phenotype toward TH1 upon
 secondary myelin basic protein stimulation. These data provide evidence
 that CD8+ T cells control autoimmune responses, in part, by
 regulating the TH phenotype of self-reactive CD4+ T cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
FADD/Mort1, initially identified as a Fas-associated death-domain
 containing protein, functions as an adapter molecule in
 apoptosis initiated by Fas, tumor necrosis factor receptor-I,
 DR3, and TRAIL-receptors. However, FADD likely participates in
 additional signaling cascades. FADD-null mutations in mice are
 embryonic-lethal, and analysis of
 FADD−/− T cells from
 RAG-1−/− reconstituted
 chimeras has suggested a role for FADD in proliferation of mature T
 cells. Here, we report the generation of T cell-specific FADD-deficient
 mice via a conditional genomic rescue approach. We find that
 FADD-deficiency leads to inhibition of T cell development at the
 CD4−CD8− stage and a reduction in the number
 of mature T cells. The FADD mutation does not affect apoptosis
 or the proximal signaling events of the pre-T cell receptor;
 introduction of a T cell receptor transgene fails to rescue the mutant
 phenotype. These data suggest that FADD, through either a death-domain
 containing receptor or a novel receptor-independent mechanism, is
 required for the proliferative phase of early T cell development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The CD8+ T cell diaspora has been analyzed after
 secondary challenge with an influenza A virus that replicates only in
 the respiratory tract. Numbers of DbNP366- and
 DbPA224-specific CD8+ T cells were
 measured by tetramer staining at the end of the recall response, then
 followed sequentially in the lung, lymph nodes, spleen, blood, and
 other organs. The extent of clonal expansion did not reflect the sizes
 of the preexisting memory T cell pools. Although the high-frequency
 CD8+ tetramer+ populations in the pneumonic
 lung and mediastinal lymph nodes fell rapidly from peak values, the
 “whole mouse” virus-specific CD8+ T cell counts
 decreased only 2-fold over the 4 weeks after infection, then subsided
 at a fairly steady rate to reach a plateau at about 2 months. The
 largest numbers were found throughout in the spleen, then the bone
 marrow. The
 CD8+DbNP366+ and
 CD8+DbPA224+ sets
 remained significantly enlarged for at least 4 months, declining at
 equivalent rates while retaining the nucleoprotein > acid polymerase
 immunodominance hierarchy characteristic of the earlier antigen-driven
 phase. Lowest levels of the CD69 “activation marker” were
 detected consistently on virus-specific CD8+ T cells in the
 blood, then the spleen. Those in the bone marrow and liver were
 intermediate, and CD69hi T cells were very prominent in the
 regional lymph nodes and the nasal-associated lymphoid tissue. Any
 population of “resting” CD8+ memory T cells is thus
 phenotypically heterogeneous, widely dispersed, and subject to broad
 homeostatic and local environmental effects irrespective of epitope
 specificity or magnitude.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Agents that increase intracellular cAMP inhibit the activation and
 function of T cells and can lead to cell death. Recently, it has been
 postulated that cAMP inhibits T cell function in large part by acting
 as a brake on the T cell receptor and costimulatory receptor pathways.
 Therefore, for full activation of the T cell to occur, this inhibitory
 influence must be removed. One likely mechanism for accomplishing this
 is by up-regulation and/or activation of specific cyclic nucleotide
 phosphodiesterases (PDEs), and such a mechanism for one
 phosphodiesterase, PDE7A1, has been reported. In this paper, we extend
 this mechanism to another isozyme variant of the same PDE family,
 PDE7A3. We also report the full-length sequence of human PDE8A1 and
 show that it also is induced in response to a combination of T cell
 receptor and costimulatory receptor pathway activation. However, the
 time course for induction of PDE8A1 is slower than that of PDE7A1. The
 basal level measured and, therefore, the apparent fold induction of
 PDE7A1 mRNA and protein depend in large part on the method of isolation
 of the T cells. On the other hand, regardless of the isolation method,
 the basal levels of PDE7A3 and PDE8A1 are very low and fold activation
 is much higher. Constitutively expressed PDE8A1 and PDE7A3 also have
 been isolated from a human T cell line, Hut78.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Reactivation of latent herpesviruses is a particular problem in
 immunocompromised individuals, such as AIDS patients, who lack
 effective CD4 T helper cell function. An important question is whether
 residual immune defenses can be mobilized to combat such opportunistic
 infections, in the absence of CD4 T cells. In the present study, we
 used a mouse model of opportunistic infection to determine whether
 stimulation via CD40 could substitute for CD4 T cell function in
 preventing reactivation of a latent herpesvirus. Treatment with an
 agonistic antibody to CD40 was highly effective in preventing
 reactivation of latent murine gammaherpesvirus (MHV-68) in the lungs of
 CD4 T cell-deficient mice. CD8+ T cells were essential for
 this effect, whereas virus-specific serum antibody was undetectable and
 IFN-γ production was unchanged. This demonstration that
 immunostimulation via CD40 can replace CD4 T cell help in controlling
 latent virus in vivo has potential implications for the
 development of novel therapeutic agents to prevent viral reactivation
 in immunocompromised patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In normal rats and mice, immunostaining with specific antibodies
 revealed that nuclei of most prostatic epithelial cells harbor estrogen
 receptor β (ERβ). In rat ventral prostate, 530- and 549-aa isoforms
 of the receptor were identified. These sediment in the 4S region of
 low-salt sucrose gradients, indicating that prostatic ERβ does not
 contain the same protein chaperones that are associated with ERα.
 Estradiol (E2) binding and ERβ immunoreactivity coincide
 on the gradient, with no indication of ERα. In prostates from mice in
 which the ERβ gene has been inactivated (BERKO), androgen receptor
 (AR) levels are elevated, and the tissue contains multiple hyperplastic
 foci. Most epithelial cells express the proliferation antigen
 Ki-67. In contrast, prostatic epithelium from wild-type
 littermates is single layered with no hyperplasia, and very few cells
 express Ki-67. Rat ventral prostate contains an
 estrogenic component, which comigrates on HPLC with the testosterone
 metabolite 5α-androstane-3β,17β-diol (3βAdiol). This compound,
 which competes with E2 for binding to ERβ and elicits an
 estrogenic response in the aorta but not in the pituitary, decreases
 the AR content in prostates of wild-type mice but does not affect the
 elevated levels seen in ERβ knockout (BERKO) mice. Thus ERβ,
 probably as a complex with 3βAdiol, is involved in regulating the AR
 content of the rodent prostate and in restraining epithelial growth.
 These findings suggest that ligands specific for ERβ may be useful in
 the prevention and/or clinical management of prostatic hyperplasia
 and neoplasia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Through functional expression screening, we identified a
 gene, designated Humanin (HN) cDNA, which encodes a short polypeptide
 and abolishes death of neuronal cells caused by multiple different
 types of familial Alzheimer's disease genes and by Aβ amyloid,
 without effect on death by Q79 or superoxide dismutase-1 mutants.
 Transfected HN cDNA was transcribed to the corresponding polypeptide
 and then was secreted into the cultured medium. The rescue action
 clearly depended on the primary structure of HN. This polypeptide would
 serve as a molecular clue for the development of new therapeutics for
 Alzheimer's disease targeting neuroprotection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A major concern associated with the use of vaccines based on
 live-attenuated viruses is the possible and well documented reversion
 to pathogenic phenotypes. In the case of HIV, genomic deletions or
 mutations introduced to attenuate viral pathogenicity can be repaired
 by selection of compensating mutations. These events lead to increased
 virus replication rates and, eventually, disease progression. Because
 replication competence and degree of protection appear to be directly
 correlated, further attenuation of a vaccine virus may compromise the
 ability to elicit a protective immune response. Here, we describe an
 approach toward a safe attenuated HIV vaccine. The system is not based
 on permanent reduction of infectivity by alteration of important viral
 genomic sequences, but on strict control of replication through the
 insertion of the tetracycline (Tet) system in the HIV genome.
 Furthermore, extensive in vitro evolution was applied to
 the prototype Tet-controlled HIV to select for variants with optimized
 rather than diminished replication capacity. The final product of
 evolution has properties uniquely suited for use as a vaccine strain.
 The evolved virus is highly infectious, as opposed to a canonically
 attenuated virus. It replicates efficiently in T cell lines and in
 activated and unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Most
 importantly, replication is strictly dependent on the nontoxic
 Tetanalogue doxycycline and can be turned on and off. These
 results suggest that this in vitro evolved,
 doxycycline-dependent HIV might represent a useful tool toward the
 development of a safer, live-attenuated HIV vaccine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endometrial stromal tumors are divided into three types: benign
 stromal nodules, endometrial stromal sarcomas, and undifferentiated
 endometrial sarcomas. A variety of cytogenetic abnormalities involving
 chromosome 7 have been reported in endometrial stromal sarcomas,
 including a recurrent t(7;17)(p15;q21). We have identified two zinc
 finger genes, which we have termed JAZF1 and
 JJAZ1, at the sites of the 7p15 and 17q21 breakpoints.
 Analyses of tumor RNA indicate that a
 JAZF1/JJAZ1 fusion is present in all
 types of endometrial stromal tumors; however, the fusion appears to be
 rarer among endometrial stromal sarcomas that would be considered
 high-grade according to certain classification schemes. These findings
 suggest that the less malignant endometrial stromal tumors may evolve
 toward more malignant types, but that some endometrial stromal sarcomas
 with relatively abundant mitotic activity may compose a biologically
 distinct group.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Survey evidence through the early 1990s generally suggests a
 reduction in disability in the elderly population of the United States.
 Because the evidence is not fully consistent, several authors have
 speculated about whether disability declines will continue. This paper
 reports results from the 1999 National Long-Term Care Survey on
 disability trends from 1982 through 1999. It is found that disability
 continued to decline in the 1994 to 1999 period, and that the decline
 was greater in the 1990s than in the 1980s. The disability decline from
 1982 to 1989 was 0.26% per year, from 1989 to 1994 it was 0.38% per
 year, and from 1994 to 1999 it was 0.56% per year. In addition,
 disability declined by a greater percentage for blacks than for
 nonblacks over the 1989 to 1999 period.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyclophilin A (CyPA) is specifically incorporated into the virions
 of HIV-1 and has been shown to enhance significantly an early step of
 cellular HIV-1 infection. Our preliminary studies implicated CD147 as a
 receptor for extracellular CyPA. Here, we demonstrate a role for
 CyPA–CD147 interaction during the early steps of HIV-1 infection.
 Expression of human CD147 increased infection by HIV-1 under one-cycle
 conditions. However, susceptibility to infection by viruses lacking
 CyPA (simian immunodeficiency virus or HIV-1 produced in the presence
 of cyclosporin A) was unaffected by CD147. Virus-associated CyPA
 coimmunoprecipitated with CD147 from infected cells. Antibody to CD147
 inhibited HIV-1 entry as evidenced by the delay in translocation of the
 HIV-1 core proteins from the membrane and inhibition of viral reverse
 transcription. Viruses whose replication did not require CyPA (SIV or
 mutant HIV-1) were resistant to the inhibitory effect of anti-CD147
 antibody. These results suggest that HIV-1 entry depends on an
 interaction between virus-associated CyPA and CD147 on a target cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The surfactant protein C (SP-C) gene encodes an extremely
 hydrophobic, 4-kDa peptide produced by alveolar epithelial cells in the
 lung. To discern the role of SP-C in lung function, SP-C-deficient
 (−/−) mice were produced. The SP-C (−/−) mice were viable at
 birth and grew normally to adulthood without apparent pulmonary
 abnormalities. SP-C mRNA was not detected in the lungs of SP-C
 (−/−) mice, nor was mature SP-C protein detected by Western blot of
 alveolar lavage from SP-C (−/−) mice. The levels of the other
 surfactant proteins (A, B, D) in alveolar lavage were comparable to
 those in wild-type mice. Surfactant pool sizes, surfactant synthesis,
 and lung morphology were similar in SP-C (−/−) and SP-C (+/+)
 mice. Lamellar bodies were present in SP-C (−/−) type II cells, and
 tubular myelin was present in the alveolar lumen. Lung mechanics
 studies demonstrated abnormalities in lung hysteresivity (a term used
 to reflect the mechanical coupling between energy dissipative forces
 and tissue-elastic properties) at low, positive-end, expiratory
 pressures. The stability of captive bubbles with surfactant from the
 SP-C (−/−) mice was decreased significantly, indicating that SP-C
 plays a role in the stabilization of surfactant at low lung volumes, a
 condition that may accompany respiratory distress syndrome in infants
 and adults.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuronal progenitors and tumor cells possess propensity to
 proliferate and to migrate. Glutamate regulates proliferation and
 migration of neurons during development, but it is not known whether it
 influences proliferation and migration of tumor cells. We demonstrate
 that glutamate antagonists inhibit proliferation of human tumor cells.
 Colon adenocarcinoma, astrocytoma, and breast and lung carcinoma cells
 were most sensitive to the antiproliferative effect of the
 N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine,
 whereas breast and lung carcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, and
 neuroblastoma cells responded most favorably to the
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate antagonist
 GYKI52466. The antiproliferative effect of glutamate antagonists was
 Ca2+ dependent and resulted from decreased cell division
 and increased cell death. Morphological alterations induced by
 glutamate antagonists in tumor cells consisted of reduced membrane
 ruffling and pseudopodial protrusions. Furthermore, glutamate
 antagonists decreased motility and invasive growth of tumor cells.
 These findings suggest anticancer potential of glutamate antagonists.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transcriptional effects of deregulated myc gene
 overexpression are implicated in tumorigenesis in a spectrum of
 experimental and naturally occurring neoplasms. In follicles of the
 chicken bursa of Fabricius, myc induction of B-cell
 neoplasia requires a target cell population present during early bursal
 development and progresses through preneoplastic transformed follicles
 to metastatic lymphomas. We developed a chicken immune system cDNA
 microarray to analyze broad changes in gene expression that occur
 during normal embryonic B-cell development and during
 myc-induced neoplastic transformation in the bursa. The
 number of mRNAs showing at least 3-fold change was greater during
 myc-induced lymphomagenesis than during normal
 development, and hierarchical cluster analysis of expression patterns
 revealed that levels of several hundred mRNAs varied in concert with
 levels of myc overexpression. A set of 41 mRNAs were
 most consistently elevated in myc-overexpressing
 preneoplastic and neoplastic cells, most involved in processes thought
 to be subject to regulation by Myc. The mRNAs for another cluster of
 genes were overexpressed in neoplasia independent of myc
 expression level, including a small subset with the expression
 signature of embryonic bursal lymphocytes. Overexpression of
 myc, and some of the genes overexpressed with
 myc, may be important for generation of preneoplastic
 transformed follicles. However, expression profiles of late metastatic
 tumors showed a large variation in concert with myc
 expression levels, and some showed minimal myc
 overexpression. Therefore, high-level myc overexpression
 may be more important in the early induction of these lymphomas than in
 maintenance of late-stage metastases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+), a clinical
 subset of febrile seizures (FS), is characterized by frequent episodes
 beyond 6 years of age (FS+) and various types of subsequent epilepsy.
 Mutations in β1 and αI-subunit genes of voltage-gated
 Na+ channels have been associated with GEFS+1 and 2,
 respectively. Here, we report a mutation resulting in an amino acid
 exchange (R187W) in the gene encoding the α-subunit of neuronal
 voltage-gated Na+ channel type II
 (Nav1.2) in a patient with FS
 associated with afebrile seizures. The mutation R187W occurring on
 Arg187, a highly conserved residue among
 voltage-gated Na+ channels, was not found in 224 alleles of
 unaffected individuals. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings on human
 embryonic kidney (HEK) cells expressing a rat wild-type
 (rNav1.2) and the corresponding mutant channels showed that
 the mutant channel inactivated more slowly than wild-type whereas the
 Na+ channel conductance was not affected. Prolonged
 residence in the open state of the R187W mutant channel may augment
 Na+ influx and thereby underlie the neuronal
 hyperexcitability that induces seizure activity. Even though a small
 pedigree could not show clear cosegregation with the disease phenotype,
 these findings strongly suggest the involvement of
 Nav1.2 in a human disease and
 propose the R187W mutation as the genetic defect responsible for
 febrile seizures associated with afebrile seizures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most endocrine hormones are produced in tissues and organs with
 permeable microvessels that may provide an excess of hormones to be
 transported by the blood circulation to the distal target organ. Here,
 we investigate whether leptin, an endocrine hormone, induces the
 formation of vascular fenestrations and permeability, and we
 characterize its angiogenic property in the presence of other
 angiogenic factors. We provide evidence that leptin-induced new blood
 vessels are fenestrated. Under physiological conditions, capillary
 fenestrations are found in the leptin-producing adipose tissue in lean
 mice. In contrast, no vascular fenestrations were detected in the
 adipose tissue of leptin-deficient ob/ob mice. Thus,
 leptin plays a critical role in the maintenance and regulation of
 vascular fenestrations in the adipose tissue. Leptin induces a rapid
 vascular permeability response when administrated intradermally.
 Further, leptin synergistically stimulates angiogenesis with fibroblast
 growth factor (FGF)-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
 the two most potent and commonly expressed angiogenic factors. These
 findings demonstrate that leptin has another new function—the increase
 of vascular permeability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Oncolytic herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) vectors are promising
 therapeutic agents for cancer. Their efficacy depends on the extent of
 both intratumoral viral replication and induction of a host antitumor
 immune response. To enhance these properties while employing ample
 safeguards, two conditionally replicating HSV-1 vectors, termed G47Δ
 and R47Δ, have been constructed by deleting the
 α47 gene and the promoter region of
 US11 from
 γ34.5-deficient HSV-1 vectors, G207 and
 R3616, respectively. Because the α47
 gene product is responsible for inhibiting the transporter associated
 with antigen presentation (TAP), its absence led to increased MHC class
 I expression in infected human cells. Moreover, some G47Δ-infected
 human melanoma cells exhibited enhanced stimulation of matched
 antitumor T cell activity. The deletion also places the late
 US11 gene under control of the immediate-early
 α47 promoter, which suppresses the
 reduced growth properties of
 γ34.5-deficient mutants. G47Δ and
 R47Δ showed enhanced viral growth in a variety of cell lines, leading
 to higher virus yields and enhanced cytopathic effect in tumor cells.
 G47Δ was significantly more efficacious in vivo than
 its parent G207 at inhibiting tumor growth in both immune-competent and
 immune-deficient animal models. Yet, when inoculated into the brains of
 HSV-1-sensitive A/J mice at 2 × 106 plaque forming
 units, G47Δ was as safe as G207. These results suggest that G47Δ
 may have enhanced antitumor activity in humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endogenous ligands of cannabinoid receptors have been
 discovered recently and include some N-acylethanolamines
 (NAEs; e.g., N-arachidonoylethanolamine) and some
 2-acylglycerols (e.g., sn-2-arachidonoylglycerol).
 Previously, we found these compounds to be active biologically when
 administered per os in large quantities to mice. In the
 present work, piglets were fed diets with and without
 20:4n−6 and 22:6n−3 fatty acid
 precursors of NAEs, in levels similar to those found in porcine milk,
 during the first 18 days of life, and corresponding brain NAEs were
 assessed. In piglets fed diets containing 20:4n−6 and
 22:6n−3, there were increases in several biologically
 active NAEs in brain homogenates—20:4n−6 NAE (4-fold),
 20:5n−3 NAE (5-fold), and 22:5n−3 and
 22:6n−3 NAE (9- to 10-fold). These results support a
 mechanism we propose for dietary long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids
 influences on brain biochemistry with presumed functional sequelae.
 This paradigm will enable targeted investigations to determine whether
 and why specific populations such as infants, elderly, or persons
 suffering from certain clinical conditions may benefit from dietary
 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tumor formation involves the accumulation of a series of genetic
 alterations that are required for malignant growth. In most
 malignancies, genetic changes can be observed at the chromosomal level
 as losses or gains of whole or large portions of
 chromosomes. Here we provide evidence that tumor DNA may
 be horizontally transferred by the uptake of apoptotic bodies.
 Phagocytosis of apoptotic bodies derived from
 H-rasV12- and human c-myc-transfected rat fibroblasts
 resulted in loss of contact inhibition in vitro and a
 tumorigenic phenotype in vivo. Fluorescence in
 situ hybridization analysis revealed the presence of rat
 chromosomes or of rat and mouse fusion chromosomes in the nuclei of the
 recipient murine cells. The transferred DNA was propagated, provided
 that the transferred DNA conferred a selective advantage to the cell
 and that the phagocytotic host cell was p53-negative. These results
 suggest that lateral transfer of DNA between eukaryotic cells may
 result in aneuploidy and the accumulation of genetic changes that are
 necessary for tumor formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The drugs in clinical use against African sleeping sickness are
 toxic, costly, or inefficient. We show that Trypanosoma
 brucei, which causes this disease, has very low levels of CTP,
 which are due to a limited capacity for de novo
 synthesis and the lack of salvage pathways. The CTP synthetase
 inhibitors 6-diazo-5-oxo-l-norleucine (DON) and
 α-amino-3-chloro-4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid (acivicin)
 reduced the parasite CTP levels even further and inhibited trypanosome
 proliferation in vitro and in T.
 brucei-infected mice. In mammalian cells, DON mainly inhibits
 de novo purine biosynthesis, a pathway lacking in
 trypanosomes. We could rescue DON-treated human and mouse fibroblasts
 by the addition of the purine base hypoxanthine to the growth medium.
 For treatment of sleeping sickness, we propose the use of CTP
 synthetase inhibitors alone or in combination with appropriate
 nucleosides or bases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Positron-emission tomography and functional MRS imaging signals can
 be analyzed to derive neurophysiological values of cerebral blood flow
 or volume and cerebral metabolic consumption rates of glucose
 (CMRGlc) or oxygen (CMRO2). Under basal
 physiological conditions in the adult mammalian brain, glucose
 oxidation is nearly complete so that the oxygen-to-glucose index (OGI),
 given by the ratio of CMRO2/CMRGlc, is
 close to the stoichiometric value of 6. However, a survey of functional
 imaging data suggests that the OGI is activity dependent, moving
 further below the oxidative value of 6 as activity is increased. Brain
 lactate concentrations also increase with stimulation. These results
 had led to the concept that brain activation is supported by anaerobic
 glucose metabolism, which was inconsistent with basal glucose
 oxidation. These differences are resolved here by a proposed model of
 glucose energetics, in which a fraction of glucose is cycled through
 the cerebral glycogen pool, a fraction that increases with degree of
 brain activation. The “glycogen shunt,” although energetically
 less efficient than glycolysis, is followed because of its ability to
 supply glial energy in milliseconds for rapid neurotransmitter
 clearance, as a consequence of which OGI is lowered and lactate is
 increased. The value of OGI observed is consistent with passive lactate
 efflux, driven by the observed lactate concentration, for the few
 experiments with complete data. Although the OGI changes during
 activation, the energies required per neurotransmitter release
 (neuronal) and clearance (glial) are constant over a wide range of
 brain activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To visualize and isolate live dopamine (DA)-producing neurons in
 the embryonic ventral mesencephalon, we generated transgenic mice
 expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the rat
 tyrosine hydroxylase gene promoter. In the transgenic mice, GFP
 expression was observed in the developing DA neurons containing
 tyrosine hydroxylase. The outgrowth and cue-dependent guidance of
 GFP-labeled axons was monitored in vitro with brain
 culture systems. To isolate DA neurons expressing GFP from brain
 tissue, cells with GFP fluorescence were sorted by
 fluorescence-activated cell sorting. More than 60% of the sorted
 GFP+ cells were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase,
 confirming that the population had been successfully enriched with DA
 neurons. The sorted GFP+ cells were transplanted into a rat
 model of Parkinson's disease. Some of these cells survived and
 innervated the host striatum, resulting in a recovery from Parkinsonian
 behavioral defects. This strategy for isolating an enriched population
 of DA neurons should be useful for cellular and molecular studies of
 these neurons and for clinical applications in the treatment of
 Parkinson's disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Lissencephaly is a severe brain malformation in humans. To study
 the function of the gene mutated in lissencephaly
 (LIS1), we deleted the first coding exon from the mouse
 Lis1 gene. The deletion resulted in a shorter protein
 (sLIS1) that initiates from the second methionine, a unique situation
 because most LIS1 mutations result in a null allele. This mutation
 mimics a mutation described in one lissencephaly patient with a milder
 phenotype. Homozygotes are early lethal, although heterozygotes are
 viable and fertile. Most strikingly, the morphology of cortical neurons
 and radial glia is aberrant in the developing cortex, and the neurons
 migrate more slowly. This is the first demonstration, to our knowledge,
 of a cellular abnormality in the migrating neurons after Lis1 mutation.
 Moreover, cortical plate splitting and thalomocortical innervation are
 also abnormal. Biochemically, the mutant protein is not capable of
 dimerization, and enzymatic activity is elevated in the embryos, thus a
 demonstration of the in vivo role of LIS1 as a subunit
 of PAF-AH. This mutation allows us to determine a hierarchy of
 functions that are sensitive to LIS1 dosage, thus promoting our
 understanding of the role of LIS1 in the developing cortex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe a mouse model in which p27Kip1 transgene
 expression is spatially restricted to the central nervous system
 neuroepithelium and temporally controlled with doxycycline.
 Transgene-specific transcripts are detectable within 6 h
 of doxycycline administration, and maximum nonlethal expression
 is approached within 12 h. After 18–26 h of transgene expression,
 the G1 phase of the cell cycle is estimated to increase
 from 9 to 13 h in the neocortical neuroepithelium, the maximum
 G1 phase length attainable in this proliferative population
 in normal mice. Thus our data establish a direct link between
 p27Kip1 and control of G1 phase length in the
 mammalian central nervous system and unveil intrinsic mechanisms that
 constrain the G1 phase length to a putative physiological
 maximum despite ongoing p27Kip1 transgene expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuronal synchronization in the olfactory bulb has been
 proposed to arise from a diffuse action of glutamate released from
 mitral cells (MC, olfactory bulb relay neurons). According to this
 hypothesis, glutamate spills over from dendrodendritic synapses formed
 between MC and granule cells (GC, olfactory bulb interneurons) to
 activate neighboring MC. The excitation of MC is balanced by a strong
 inhibition from GC. Here we show that MC excitation is caused by
 glutamate released from bulbar interneurons located in the GC layer.
 These reciprocal synapses depend on an unusual,
 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid-resistant,
 N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor. This type of
 feedback excitation onto relay neurons may strengthen the original
 sensory input signal and further extend the function of the dendritic
 microcircuit within the main olfactory bulb.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mid-winter development of refractoriness to melatonin
 (Mel) triggers recrudescence of the atrophied reproductive apparatus of
 rodents. As a consequence, over-wintering animals become reproductively
 competent just before the onset of spring conditions favorable for
 breeding. The neural target tissues that cease to respond to winter Mel
 signals have not been identified. We now report that the
 suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus, which contains the
 principal circadian clock, and the reuniens and paraventricular nuclei
 of the thalamus, each independently becomes refractory to melatonin.
 Small implants of Mel that were left in place for 40 wk and that act
 locally on these brain nuclei, induced testicular regression within 6
 wk in male Siberian hamsters; 12 wk later Mel implants no longer
 suppressed reproduction and gonadal recrudescence ensued. Hamsters that
 were then given a systemic Mel infusion s.c. immediately initiated a
 second gonadal regression, implying that neurons at each site become
 refractory to Mel without compromising responsiveness of other Mel
 target tissues. Refractoriness occurs locally and independently at each
 neural target tissue, rather than in a separate “refractoriness”
 substrate. Restricted, target-specific actions of Mel are consistent
 with the independent regulation by day length of the several behavioral
 and physiological traits that vary seasonally in mammals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the mammalian visual system the formation of eye-specific
 layers at the thalamic level depends on retinal waves of spontaneous
 activity, which rely on nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation. We
 found that in mutant mice lacking the β2 subunit of the neuronal
 nicotinic receptor, but not in mice lacking the α4 subunit,
 retinofugal projections do not segregate into eye-specific areas, both
 in the dorso-lateral geniculate nucleus and in the superior colliculus.
 Moreover, β2−/− mice show an expansion of the binocular subfield
 of the primary visual cortex and a decrease in visual acuity at the
 cortical level but not in the retina. We conclude that the β2 subunit
 of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is necessary for the anatomical
 and functional development of the visual system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several DEG/ENaC cation channel subunits are expressed in
 the tongue and in cutaneous sensory neurons, where they are postulated
 to function as receptors for salt and sour taste and for touch. Because
 these tissues are exposed to large temperature variations, we examined
 how temperature affects DEG/ENaC channel function. We found that
 cold temperature markedly increased the constitutively active
 Na+ currents generated by epithelial Na+
 channels (ENaC). Half-maximal stimulation occurred at 25°C. Cold
 temperature did not induce current from other DEG/ENaC family
 members (BNC1, ASIC, and DRASIC). However, when these channels were
 activated by acid, cold temperature potentiated the currents by slowing
 the rate of desensitization. Potentiation was abolished by a
 “Deg” mutation that alters channel gating. Temperature changes in
 the physiologic range had prominent effects on current in cells
 heterologously expressing acid-gated DEG/ENaC channels, as well
 as in dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons. The finding that cold
 temperature modulates DEG/ENaC channel function may provide a
 molecular explanation for the widely recognized ability of temperature
 to modify taste sensation and mechanosensation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ligands acting at the benzodiazepine (BZ) site of γ-aminobutyric
 acid type A (GABAA) receptors currently are the most widely
 used hypnotics. BZs such as diazepam (Dz) potentiate GABAA
 receptor activation. To determine the GABAA receptor
 subtypes that mediate the hypnotic action of Dz wild-type mice and mice
 that harbor Dz-insensitive α1 GABAA receptors [α1
 (H101R) mice] were compared. Sleep latency and the amount of sleep
 after Dz treatment were not affected by the point mutation. An initial
 reduction of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep also occurred equally in
 both genotypes. Furthermore, the Dz-induced changes in the sleep and
 waking electroencephalogram (EEG) spectra, the increase in power
 density above 21 Hz in non-REM sleep and waking, and the suppression of
 slow-wave activity (SWA; EEG power in the 0.75- to 4.0-Hz band) in
 non-REM sleep were present in both genotypes. Surprisingly, these
 effects were even more pronounced in α1(H101R) mice and sleep
 continuity was enhanced by Dz only in the mutants. Interestingly, Dz
 did not affect the initial surge of SWA at the transitions to sleep,
 indicating that the SWA-generating mechanisms are not impaired by the
 BZ. We conclude that the REM sleep inhibiting action of Dz and its
 effect on the EEG spectra in sleep and waking are mediated by
 GABAA receptors other than α1, i.e., α2, α3, or α5
 GABAA receptors. Because α1 GABAA receptors
 mediate the sedative action of Dz, our results provide evidence that
 the hypnotic effect of Dz and its EEG “fingerprint” can be
 dissociated from its sedative action.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bleeding and delayed healing of ulcers are well recognized clinical
 problems associated with the use of aspirin and other nonsteroidal
 antiinflammatory drugs, which have been attributed to their
 antiaggregatory effects on platelets. We hypothesized that antiplatelet
 drugs might interfere with gastric ulcer healing by suppressing the
 release of growth factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor
 (VEGF), from platelets. Gastric ulcers were induced in rats by serosal
 application of acetic acid. Daily oral treatment with vehicle, aspirin,
 or ticlopidine (an ADP receptor antagonist) was started 3 days later
 and continued for 1 week. Ulcer induction resulted in a significant
 increase in serum levels of VEGF and a significant decrease in serum
 levels of endostatin (an antiangiogenic factor). Although both aspirin
 and ticlopidine markedly suppressed platelet aggregation, only
 ticlopidine impaired gastric ulcer healing and angiogenesis as well as
 reversing the ulcer-associated changes in serum levels of VEGF and
 endostatin. The effects of ticlopidine on ulcer healing and
 angiogenesis were mimicked by immunodepletion of circulating platelets,
 and ticlopidine did not influence ulcer healing when given to
 thrombocytopenic rats. Incubation of human umbilical vein endothelial
 cells with serum from ticlopidine-treated rats significantly reduced
 proliferation and increased apoptosis, effects reversed by an
 antibody directed against endostatin. Ticlopidine treatment resulted in
 increased platelet endostatin content and release. These results
 demonstrate a previously unrecognized contribution of platelets to the
 regulation of gastric ulcer healing. Such effects likely are mediated
 through the release from platelets of endostatin and possibly VEGF. As
 shown with ticlopidine, drugs that influence gastric ulcer healing may
 do so in part through altering the ability of platelets to release
 growth factors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Atherosclerosis preferentially occurs in areas of turbulent flow
 and low fluid shear stress, whereas laminar flow and high shear stress
 are atheroprotective. Inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis
 factor-α (TNF-α) and IL-1 stimulate expression of endothelial cell
 (EC) genes that may promote atherosclerosis. TNF-α and IL-1 regulate
 gene expression in ECs, in part, by stimulating mitogen-activated
 protein kinases (MAPK), which phosphorylate transcription factors. We
 hypothesized that steady laminar flow inhibits cytokine-mediated
 activation of MAPK in EC. To test this hypothesis, we determined the
 effects of flow (shear stress = 12 dynes/cm2) on
 TNF-α and IL-1-stimulated activity of three MAPK in human umbilical
 vein ECs (HUVEC): extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2),
 p38, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Flow alone stimulated ERK1/2
 and p38 activity but decreased JNK activity compared with static
 controls. TNF-α or IL-1 alone activated ERK1/2, p38, and JNK
 maximally at 15 min in HUVEC. Preexposing HUVEC for 10 min to flow
 inhibited TNF-α and IL-1 activation of JNK by 46% and 49%,
 respectively, but had no significant effect on ERK1/2 or p38
 activation. Incubation of HUVEC with PD98059, which inhibits
 flow-mediated ERK1/2 activation, prevented flow from inhibiting
 cytokine activation of JNK. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, which
 strongly activates ERK1/2, also inhibited TNF-α activation of JNK.
 These findings indicate that fluid shear stress inhibits
 TNF-α-mediated signaling events in HUVEC via the activation of the
 ERK1/2 signaling pathway. Inhibition of TNF-α signal transduction
 represents a mechanism by which steady laminar flow may exert
 atheroprotective effects on the endothelium.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Local anesthetics, commonly used for treating cardiac arrhythmias,
 pain, and seizures, are best known for their inhibitory effects on
 voltage-gated Na+ channels. Cardiovascular and central
 nervous system toxicity are unwanted side-effects from local
 anesthetics that cannot be attributed to the inhibition of only
 Na+ channels. Here, we report that extracellular
 application of the membrane-permeant local anesthetic bupivacaine
 selectively inhibited G protein-gated inwardly rectifying
 K+ channels (GIRK:Kir3) but not other families of inwardly
 rectifying K+ channels (ROMK:Kir1 and IRK:Kir2).
 Bupivacaine inhibited GIRK channels within seconds of application,
 regardless of whether channels were activated through the muscarinic
 receptor or directly via coexpressed G protein
 Gβγ subunits. Bupivacaine also inhibited
 alcohol-induced GIRK currents in the absence of functional pertussis
 toxin-sensitive G proteins. The mutated GIRK1 and GIRK2 (GIRK1/2)
 channels containing the high-affinity phosphatidylinositol
 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) domain from IRK1, on the other
 hand, showed dramatically less inhibition with bupivacaine.
 Surprisingly, GIRK1/2 channels with high affinity for
 PIP2 were inhibited by ethanol, like IRK1 channels. We
 propose that membrane-permeant local anesthetics inhibit GIRK channels
 by antagonizing the interaction of PIP2 with the channel,
 which is essential for Gβγ and ethanol
 activation of GIRK channels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Arabidopsis thaliana AtHKT1 protein, a
 Na+/K+ transporter, is capable of mediating
 inward Na+ currents in Xenopus laevis
 oocytes and K+ uptake in Escherichia coli.
 HKT1 proteins are members of a superfamily of K+
 transporters. These proteins have been proposed to contain eight
 transmembrane segments and four pore-forming regions arranged in a mode
 similar to that of a K+ channel tetramer. However, computer
 analysis of the AtHKT1 sequence identified eleven potential
 transmembrane segments. We have investigated the membrane topology of
 AtHKT1 with three different techniques. First, a gene fusion alkaline
 phosphatase study in E. coli clearly defined the
 topology of the N-terminal and middle region of AtHKT1, but the model
 for membrane folding of the C-terminal region had to be refined.
 Second, with a reticulocyte-lysate supplemented with dog-pancreas
 microsomes, we demonstrated that N-glycosylation occurs
 at position 429 of AtHKT1. An engineered unglycosylated protein
 variant, N429Q, mediated Na+ currents in X.
 laevis oocytes with the same characteristics as the wild-type
 protein, indicating that N-glycosylation is not
 essential for the functional expression and membrane targeting of
 AtHKT1. Five potential glycosylation sites were introduced into the
 N429Q. Their pattern of glycosylation supported the model based on the
 E. coli-alkaline phosphatase data. Third,
 immunocytochemical experiments with FLAG-tagged AtHKT1 in HEK293 cells
 revealed that the N and C termini of AtHKT1, and the regions containing
 residues 135–142 and 377–384, face the cytosol, whereas the region of
 residues 55–62 is exposed to the outside. Taken together, our results
 show that AtHKT1 contains eight transmembrane-spanning segments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Perilipin coats the lipid droplets of adipocytes and is thought to
 have a role in regulating triacylglycerol hydrolysis. To study the role
 of perilipin in vivo, we have created a
 perilipin knockout mouse. Perilipin null
 (peri−/−) and wild-type
 (peri+/+) mice consume equal amounts of
 food, but the adipose tissue mass in the null animals is reduced to
 ≈30% of that in wild-type animals. Isolated adipocytes of
 perilipin null mice exhibit elevated basal lipolysis
 because of the loss of the protective function of perilipin. They also
 exhibit dramatically attenuated stimulated lipolytic activity,
 indicating that perilipin is required for maximal lipolytic activity.
 Plasma leptin concentrations in null animals were greater than expected
 for the reduced adipose mass. The peri−/−
 animals have a greater lean body mass and increased metabolic rate but
 they also show an increased tendency to develop glucose intolerance and
 peripheral insulin resistance. When fed a high-fat diet, the
 perilipin null animals are resistant to diet-induced
 obesity but not to glucose intolerance. The data reveal a major role
 for perilipin in adipose lipid metabolism and suggest perilipin as a
 potential target for attacking problems associated with obesity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tumor-induced osteomalacia (TIO) is one of the paraneoplastic
 diseases characterized by hypophosphatemia caused by renal phosphate
 wasting. Because removal of responsible tumors normalizes phosphate
 metabolism, an unidentified humoral phosphaturic factor is believed to
 be responsible for this syndrome. To identify the causative factor of
 TIO, we obtained cDNA clones that were abundantly expressed only in a
 tumor causing TIO and constructed tumor-specific cDNA contigs. Based on
 the sequence of one major contig, we cloned 2,270-bp cDNA, which turned
 out to encode fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23). Administration of
 recombinant FGF23 decreased serum phosphate in mice within 12 h.
 When Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing FGF23 were s.c.
 implanted into nude mice, hypophosphatemia with increased renal
 phosphate clearance was observed. In addition, a high level of serum
 alkaline phosphatase, low 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, deformity of bone,
 and impairment of body weight gain became evident. Histological
 examination showed marked increase of osteoid and widening of growth
 plate. Thus, continuous production of FGF23 reproduced clinical,
 biochemical, and histological features of TIO in vivo.
 Analyses for recombinant FGF23 products produced by Chinese hamster
 ovary cells indicated proteolytic cleavage of FGF23 at the RXXR motif.
 Recent genetic study indicates that missense mutations in this RXXR
 motif of FGF23 are responsible for autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic
 rickets, another hypophosphatemic disease with similar features to TIO.
 We conclude that overproduction of FGF23 causes TIO, whereas mutations
 in the FGF23 gene result in autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets
 possibly by preventing proteolytic cleavage and enhancing biological
 activity of FGF23.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antisense-mediated gene silencing (ASGS) and posttranscriptional
 gene silencing (PTGS) with sense transgenes markedly reduce the
 steady-state mRNA levels of endogenous genes similar in
 transcribed sequence. RNase protection assays established that
 silencing in tobacco plants transformed with plant-defense-related
 class I sense and antisense chitinase (CHN) transgenes
 is at the posttranscriptional level. Infection of tobacco plants with
 cucumber mosaic virus strain FN and a necrotizing strain of potato
 virus Y, but not with potato virus X, effectively suppressed PTGS and
 ASGS of both the transgenes and homologous endogenes. This suggests
 that ASGS and PTGS share components associated with initiation and
 maintenance of the silent state. Small, ca. 25-nt RNAs
 (smRNA) of both polarities were associated with PTGS and ASGS in
 CHN transformants as reported for PTGS in other
 transgenic plants and for RNA interference in
 Drosophila. Similar results were obtained with an
 antisense class I β-1,3-glucanase transformant showing that viral
 suppression and smRNAs are a more general feature of ASGS. Several
 current models hold that diverse signals lead to production of
 double-stranded RNAs, which are processed to smRNAs that then trigger
 PTGS. Our results provide direct evidence for mechanistic links between
 ASGS and PTGS and suggest that ASGS could join a common PTGS pathway at
 the double-stranded RNA step.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In tomato, Ve is implicated in race-specific
 resistance to infection by Verticillium species causing
 crop disease. Characterization of the Ve locus involved
 positional cloning and isolation of two closely linked inverted genes.
 Expression of individual Ve genes in susceptible potato
 plants conferred resistance to an aggressive race 1 isolate of
 Verticillium albo-atrum. The deduced primary structure
 of Ve1 and Ve2 included a hydrophobic
 N-terminal signal peptide, leucine-rich repeats containing 28 or 35
 potential glycosylation sites, a hydrophobic membrane-spanning domain,
 and a C-terminal domain with the mammalian E/DXXXLφ or YXXφ
 endocytosis signals (φ is an amino acid with a hydrophobic side
 chain). A leucine zipper-like sequence occurs in the hydrophobic
 N-terminal signal peptide of Ve1 and a Pro-Glu-Ser-Thr
 (PEST)-like sequence resides in the C-terminal domain of
 Ve2. These structures suggest that the Ve
 genes encode a class of cell-surface glycoproteins with
 receptor-mediated endocytosis-like signals and leucine zipper or PEST
 sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plants contain RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP) activities that
 synthesize short cRNAs by using cellular or viral RNAs as templates.
 During studies of salicylic acid (SA)-induced resistance to viral
 pathogens, we recently found that the activity of a tobacco RdRP was
 increased in virus-infected or SA-treated plants. Biologically active
 SA analogs capable of activating plant defense response also induced
 the RdRP activity, whereas biologically inactive analogs did not. A
 tobacco RdRP gene, NtRDRP1, was isolated and found to be
 induced both by virus infection and by treatment with SA or its
 biologically active analogs. Tobacco lines deficient in the inducible
 RDRP activity were obtained by expressing antisense RNA for the
 NtRDRP1 gene in transgenic plants. When infected by
 tobacco mosaic virus, these transgenic plants accumulated significantly
 higher levels of viral RNA and developed more severe disease symptoms
 than wild-type plants. After infection by a strain of potato virus X
 that does not spread in wild-type tobacco plants, the transgenic
 NtRDRP1 antisense plants accumulated virus and developed
 symptoms not only locally in inoculated leaves but also systemically in
 upper uninoculated leaves. These results strongly suggest that
 inducible RdRP activity plays an important role in plant antiviral
 defense.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Extracellular invertase mediates phloem unloading via an apoplastic
 pathway. The gene encoding isoenzyme Nin88 from tobacco was cloned and
 shown to be characterized by a specific spatial and temporal expression
 pattern. Tissue-specific antisense repression of Nin88
 under control of the corresponding promoter in tobacco results in a
 block during early stages of pollen development, thus, causing male
 sterility. This result demonstrates a critical role of extracellular
 invertase in pollen development and strongly supports the essential
 function of extracellular sucrose cleavage for supplying carbohydrates
 to sink tissues via the apoplast. The specific interference with phloem
 unloading, the sugar status, and metabolic signaling during pollen
 formation will be a potentially valuable approach to induce male
 sterility in various crop species for hybrid seed production.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cell–cell recognition often requires the formation of a highly
 organized pattern of receptor proteins (a synapse) in the intercellular
 junction. Recent experiments [e.g., Monks, C. R. F.,
 Freiberg, B. A., Kupfer, H., Sciaky, N. & Kupfer, A. (1998)
 Nature (London) 395, 82–86; Grakoui, A., Bromley,
 S. K., Sumen, C., Davis, M. M., Shaw, A. S., Allen,
 P. M. & Dustin, M. L. (1999) Science 285,
 221–227; and Davis, D. M., Chiu, I., Fassett, M., Cohen, G.
 B., Mandelboim, O. & Strominger, J. L. (1999) Proc. Natl.
 Acad. Sci. USA 96, 15062–15067] vividly demonstrate a complex
 evolution of cell shape and spatial receptor–ligand patterns (several
 microns in size) in the intercellular junction during immunological
 synapse formation. The current view is that this dynamic rearrangement
 of proteins into organized supramolecular activation clusters is driven
 primarily by active cytoskeletal processes [e.g., Dustin, M. L. &
 Cooper, J. A. (2000) Nat. Immunol. 1, 23–29; and
 Wulfing, C. & Davis, M. M. (1998) Science 282,
 2266–2269]. Here, aided by a quantitative analysis of the relevant
 physico-chemical processes, we demonstrate that the essential
 characteristics of synaptic patterns observed in living cells can
 result from spontaneous self-assembly processes. Active cellular
 interventions are superimposed on these self-organizing tendencies and
 may also serve to regulate the spontaneous processes. We find that the
 protein binding/dissociation characteristics, protein mobilities, and
 membrane constraints measured in the cellular environment are
 delicately balanced such that the length and time scales of
 spontaneously evolving patterns are in near-quantitative agreement with
 observations for synapse formation between T cells and supported
 membranes [Grakoui, A., Bromley, S. K., Sumen, C., Davis, M.
 M., Shaw, A. S., Allen, P. M. & Dustin, M. L. (1999)
 Science 285, 221–227]. The model we present provides a
 common way of analyzing immunological synapse formation in disparate
 systems (e.g., T cell/antigen-presenting cell junctions with
 different MHC-peptides, natural killer cells, etc.).
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have completed the total chemical synthesis of cytochrome b562
 and an axial ligand analogue, [SeMet7]cyt b562, by
 thioester-mediated chemical ligation of unprotected peptide segments. A
 novel auxiliary-mediated native chemical ligation that enables peptide
 ligation to be applied to protein sequences lacking cysteine was used.
 A cleavable thiol-containing auxiliary group, 1-phenyl-2-mercaptoethyl,
 was added to the α-amino group of one peptide segment to facilitate
 amide bond-forming ligation. The amine-linked 1-phenyl-2-mercaptoethyl
 auxiliary was stable to anhydrous hydrogen fluoride used to cleave and
 deprotect peptides after solid-phase peptide synthesis. Following
 native chemical ligation with a thioester-containing segment, the
 auxiliary group was cleanly removed from the newly formed amide bond by
 treatment with anhydrous hydrogen fluoride, yielding a full-length
 unmodified polypeptide product. The resulting polypeptide was
 reconstituted with heme and folded to form the functional protein
 molecule. Synthetic wild-type cyt b562 exhibited spectroscopic and
 electrochemical properties identical to the recombinant protein,
 whereas the engineered [SeMet7]cyt b562 analogue protein
 was spectroscopically and functionally distinct, with a reduction
 potential shifted by ≈45 mV. The use of the 1-phenyl-2-mercaptoethyl
 removable auxiliary reported here will greatly expand the applicability
 of total protein synthesis by native chemical ligation of unprotected
 peptide segments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Volumetric studies in a range of animals (London taxi-drivers,
 polygynous male voles, nest-parasitic female cowbirds, and a number of
 food-storing birds) have shown that the size of the hippocampus, a
 brain region essential to learning and memory, is correlated with tasks
 involving an extra demand for spatial learning and memory. In this
 paper, we report the quantitative advantage that food storers gain from
 such an enlargement. Coal tits (Parus ater) a
 food-storing species, performed better than great tits (Parus
 major), a nonstoring species, on a task that assessed memory
 persistence but not on a task that assessed memory resolution or on one
 that tested memory capacity. These results show that the advantage to
 the food-storing species associated with an enlarged hippocampus is one
 of memory persistence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The F1F0 ATP synthase is the smallest motor
 enzyme known. Previous studies had established that the central stalk,
 made of the γ and ɛ subunits in the F1 part and c
 subunit ring in the F0 part, rotates relative to a stator
 composed of α3β3δab2 during
 ATP hydrolysis and synthesis. How this rotation is regulated has been
 less clear. Here, we show that the ɛ subunit plays a key role by
 acting as a switch of this motor. Two different arrangements of the ɛ
 subunit have been visualized recently. The first has been observed in
 beef heart mitochondrial F1-ATPase where the C-terminal
 portion is arranged as a two-α-helix hairpin structure that extends
 away from the α3β3 region, and toward the
 position of the c subunit ring in the intact
 F1F0. The second arrangement was observed in a
 structure determination of a complex of the γ and ɛ subunits of the
 Escherichia coli F1-ATPase. In this, the two
 C-terminal helices are apart and extend along the γ to interact with
 the α and β subunits in the intact complex. We have been able to
 trap these two arrangements by cross-linking after introducing
 appropriate Cys residues in E. coli
 F1F0, confirming that both conformations of the
 ɛ subunit exist in the enzyme complex. With the C-terminal domain of
 ɛ toward the F0, ATP hydrolysis is activated, but the
 enzyme is fully coupled in both ATP hydrolysis and synthesis. With the
 C-terminal domain toward the F1 part, ATP hydrolysis is
 inhibited and yet the enzyme is fully functional in ATP synthesis;
 i.e., it works in one direction only. These results help explain the
 inhibitory action of the ɛ subunit in the
 F1F0 complex and argue for a ratchet function
 of this subunit.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Enzymes of the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway
 may form a multienzyme complex to facilitate substrate flux through the
 ten serial steps constituting the pathway. One likely strategy for
 complex formation is the use of a structural scaffold such as the
 cytoskeletal network or subcellular membrane of the cell to mediate
 protein–protein interactions. To ascertain whether this strategy
 pertains to the de novo purine enzymes, the localization
 pattern of the third purine enzyme, glycinamide ribonucleotide
 transformylase (GAR Tfase) was monitored in live Escherichia
 coli and mammalian cells. Genes encoding human as well as
 E. coli GAR Tfase fused with green fluorescent protein
 (GFP) were introduced into their respective cells with regulated
 expression of proteins and localization patterns monitored by using
 confocal fluorescence microscopy. In both instances images showed
 proteins to be diffused throughout the cytoplasm. Thus, GAR Tfase is
 not localized to an existing cellular architecture, so this device is
 probably not used to concentrate the members of the pathway. However,
 discrete clusters of the pathway may still exist throughout the
 cytoplasm.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multiple members of the ADAR (adenosine deaminases acting on RNA)
 gene family are involved in A-to-I RNA editing. It has been speculated
 that they may form a large multicomponent protein complex. Possible
 candidates for such complexes are large nuclear ribonucleoprotein
 (lnRNP) particles. The lnRNP particles consist mainly of four
 spliceosomal subunits that assemble together with the pre-mRNA to form
 a large particle and thus are viewed as the naturally assembled
 pre-mRNA processing machinery. Here we investigated the presence of
 ADARs in lnRNP particles by Western blot analysis using anti-ADAR
 antibodies and by indirect immunoprecipitation. Both ADAR1 and ADAR2
 were found associated with the spliceosomal components Sm and SR
 proteins within the lnRNP particles. The two ADARs, associated with
 lnRNP particles, were enzymatically active in site-selective A-to-I RNA
 editing. We demonstrate the association of ADAR RNA editing enzymes
 with physiological supramolecular complexes, the lnRNP particles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Extracts of Ginkgo biloba leaves are consumed as
 dietary supplements to counteract chronic, age-related neurological
 disorders. We have applied high-density oligonucleotide microarrays to
 define the transcriptional effects in the cortex and hippocampus of
 mice whose diets were supplemented with the herbal extract. Gene
 expression analysis focused on the mRNAs that showed a more than 3-fold
 change in their expression. In the cortex, mRNAs for neuronal
 tyrosine/threonine phosphatase 1, and microtubule-associated τ were
 significantly enhanced. Hyperphosphorylated τ is the major
 constituent of the neurofibrillary tangles in the brains of
 Alzheimer's disease patients. The expression of
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-2,
 calcium and chloride channels, prolactin, and growth hormone (GH), all
 of which are associated with brain function, were also up-regulated. In
 the hippocampus, only transthyretin mRNA was upregulated.
 Transthyretin plays a role in hormone transport in the brain and
 possibly a neuroprotective role by amyloid-β sequestration. This
 study reveals that diets supplemented with Ginkgo biloba extract have
 notable neuromodulatory effects in vivo and illustrates
 the utility of genome-wide expression monitoring to investigate the
 biological actions of complex extracts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A previously unidentified gonadotropin-regulated long chain
 acyl-CoA synthetase (GR-LACS) was cloned and characterized as a 79-kDa
 cytoplasmic protein expressed in Leydig cells of the rat testis.
 GR-LACS shares sequence identity with two conserved regions of the LACS
 and luciferase families, including the ATP/AMP binding domain and the
 25-aa fatty acyl-CoA synthetase signature motif, but displays low
 overall amino acid similarities (23–28%). GR-LACS mRNA is expressed
 abundantly in Leydig cells of the adult testis and to a lesser degree
 in the seminiferous tubules in spermatogonia and Sertoli cells. It is
 also observed in ovary and brain. Immunoreactive protein expression was
 observed mainly in Leydig cells and minimally in the tubules but was
 not detected in other tissues. In vivo, treatment with a
 desensitizing dose of human chorionic gonadotropin caused
 transcriptional down-regulation of GR-LACS expression in Leydig cells.
 The expressed protein present in the cytoplasm of transfected cells
 displayed acyl-CoA synthetase activity for long chain fatty acid
 substrates. GR-LACS may contribute to the provision of energy
 requirements and to the biosynthesis of steroid precursors and could
 participate through acyl-CoA's multiple functions in the regulation of
 the male gonad.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein kinase C δ (PKC δ) is normally activated by
 diacylglycerol produced from receptor-mediated
 hydrolysis of inositol phospholipids. On stimulation of cells with
 H2O2, the enzyme is tyrosine phosphorylated,
 with a concomitant increase in enzymatic activity. This activation does
 not appear to accompany its translocation to membranes. In the present
 study, the tyrosine phosphorylation sites of PKC δ in the
 H2O2-treated cells were identified as Tyr-311,
 Tyr-332, and Tyr-512 by mass spectrometric analysis with the use of the
 precursor-scan method and by immunoblot analysis with the use of
 phosphorylation site-specific antibodies. Tyr-311 was the predominant
 modification site among them. In an in vitro study,
 phosphorylation at this site by Lck, a non-receptor-type tyrosine
 kinase, enhanced the basal enzymatic activity and elevated its maximal
 velocity in the presence of diacylglycerol. The
 mutation of Tyr-311 to phenylalanine prevented the increase in this
 maximal activity, but replacement of the other two tyrosine residues
 did not block such an effect. The results indicate that phosphorylation
 at Tyr-311 between the regulatory and catalytic domains is a critical
 step for generation of the active PKC δ in response to
 H2O2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We used a genetic method, the yeast substrate-trapping system, to
 identify substrates for protein tyrosine phosphatases ζ
 (PTPζ/RPTPβ). This method is based on the yeast two-hybrid
 system, with two essential modifications: conditional expression of
 protein tyrosine kinase v-src (active src) to tyrosine-phosphorylate
 the prey proteins and screening by using a substrate-trap mutant of
 PTPζ (PTPζ-D1902A) as bait. By using this system, several substrate
 candidates for PTPζ were isolated. Among them, GIT1/Cat-1 (G
 protein-coupled receptor kinase-interactor 1/Cool-associated,
 tyrosine-phosphorylated 1) was examined further. GIT1/Cat-1 bound to
 PTPζ-D1902A dependent on the substrate tyrosine phosphorylation.
 Tyrosine-phosphorylated GIT1/Cat-1 was dephosphorylated by PTPζ
 in vitro. Immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that
 PTPζ-D1902A and GIT1/Cat-1 form a stable complex also in mammalian
 cells. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that PTPζ and
 GIT1/Cat-1 were colocalized in the processes of pyramidal cells in
 the hippocampus and neocortex in rat brain. Subcellular colocalization
 was further verified in the growth cones of mossy fibers from pontine
 explants and in the ruffling membranes and processes of B103
 neuroblastoma cells. Moreover, pleiotrophin, a ligand for PTPζ,
 increased tyrosine phosphorylation of GIT1/Cat-1 in B103 cells. All
 these results indicate that GIT1/Cat-1 is a substrate molecule of
 PTPζ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Within chromatin, the core histone tail domains play critical roles
 in regulating the structure and accessibility of nucleosomal DNA within
 the chromatin fiber. Thus, many nuclear processes are facilitated by
 concomitant posttranslational modification of these domains. However,
 elucidation of the mechanisms by which the tails mediate such processes
 awaits definition of tail interactions within chromatin. In this study
 we have investigated the primary DNA target of the majority of the
 tails in mononucleosomes. The results clearly show that the tails bind
 preferentially to “linker” DNA, outside of the DNA encompassed by
 the nucleosome core. These results have important implications for
 models of tail function within the chromatin fiber and for in
 vitro structural and functional studies using nucleosome core
 particles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Narrow spectrum antimicrobial activity has been designed to reduce
 the expression of two essential genes, one coding for the protein
 subunit of RNase P (C5 protein) and one for gyrase (gyrase A). In both
 cases, external guide sequences (EGS) have been designed to complex
 with either mRNA. Using the EGS technology, the level of microbial
 viability is reduced to less than 10% of the wild-type strain. The
 EGSs are additive when used together and depend on the number of
 nucleotides paired when attacking gyrase A mRNA. In the case of gyrase
 A, three nucleotides unpaired out of a 15-mer EGS still favor complete
 inhibition by the EGS but five unpaired nucleotides do not.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The posttranslational modification of eukaryotic intracellular
 proteins by O-linked N-acetylglucosamine
 (O-GlcNAc) monosaccharides is essential for cell
 viability, yet its precise functional roles are largely unknown.
 O-GlcNAc transferase utilizes UDP-GlcNAc, the end
 product of hexosamine biosynthesis, to catalyze this modification. The
 availability of UDP-GlcNAc correlates with glycosylation levels of
 intracellular proteins as well as with transcriptional levels of some
 genes. Meanwhile, transcription factors and RNA polymerase II can be
 modified by O-GlcNAc. A linkage between transcription
 factor O-GlcNAcylation and transcriptional regulation
 therefore has been postulated. Here, we show that
 O-GlcNAcylation of a chimeric transcriptional activator
 containing the second activation domain of Sp1 decreases its
 transcriptional activity both in an in vitro
 transcription system and in living cells, which is in concert with our
 observation that O-GlcNAcylation of Sp1 activation
 domain blocks its in vitro and in vivo
 interactions with other Sp1 molecules and TATA-binding
 protein-associated factor II 110. Furthermore, overexpression of
 O-GlcNAc transferase specifically inhibits
 transcriptional activation by native Sp1 in cells. Thus, our studies
 provide direct evidence that O-GlcNAcylation of
 transcription factors is involved in transcriptional regulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
cDNA fragments encoding the carboxyltransferase domain of the
 multidomain plastid acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) from
 herbicide-resistant maize and from herbicide-sensitive and
 herbicide-resistant Lolium rigidum were cloned and
 sequenced. A Leu residue was found in ACCases from herbicide-resistant
 plants at a position occupied by Ile in all ACCases from sensitive
 grasses studied so far. Leu is present at the equivalent position in
 herbicide-resistant ACCases from other eukaryotes. Chimeric ACCases
 containing a 1000-aa fragment of two ACCase isozymes found in a
 herbicide-resistant maize were expressed in a yeast ACC1
 null mutant to test herbicide sensitivity of the enzyme in
 vivo and in vitro. One of the enzymes was
 resistant/tolerant, and one was sensitive to haloxyfop and
 sethoxydim, rendering the gene-replacement yeast strains resistant and
 sensitive to these compounds, respectively. The sensitive enzyme has an
 Ile residue, and the resistant one has a Leu residue at the putative
 herbicide-binding site. Additionally, a single Ile to Leu replacement
 at an equivalent position changes the wheat plastid ACCase from
 sensitive to resistant. The effect of the opposite substitution, Leu to
 Ile, makes Toxoplasma gondii apicoplast ACCase resistant
 to haloxyfop and clodinafop. In this case, inhibition of the
 carboxyltransferase activity of ACCase (second half-reaction) of a
 large fragment of the Toxoplasma enzyme expressed in Escherichia
 coli was tested. The critical amino acid residue is located
 close to a highly conserved motif of the carboxyltransferase
 domain, which is probably a part of the enzyme active site, providing
 the basis for the activity of fop and dim herbicides.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy at 94 GHz is
 used to study the dark-stable tyrosine radical
 Y in single crystals of photosystem II
 core complexes (cc) isolated from the thermophilic cyanobacterium
 Synechococcus elongatus. These complexes contain at least
 17 subunits, including the water-oxidizing complex (WOC), and 32
 chlorophyll a molecules/PS II; they are active in
 light-induced electron transfer and water oxidation. The crystals
 belong to the orthorhombic space group
 P212121, with four PS II dimers per
 unit cell. High-frequency EPR is used for enhancing the sensitivity of
 experiments performed on small single crystals as well as for
 increasing the spectral resolution of the g tensor components and of
 the different crystal sites. Magnitude and orientation of the g tensor
 of Y and related information on several
 proton hyperfine tensors are deduced from analysis of angular-dependent
 EPR spectra. The precise orientation of tyrosine
 Y in PS II is obtained as a first step in
 the EPR characterization of paramagnetic species in these single
 crystals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Snake-venom α-bungarotoxin is a member of the
 α-neurotoxin family that binds with very high affinity to the
 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction.
 The structure of the complex between α-bungarotoxin and a 13-mer
 peptide (WRYYESSLEPYPD) that binds the toxin with high affinity, thus
 inhibiting its interactions with AChR with an IC50 of 2 nM,
 has been solved by 1H-NMR spectroscopy. The bound peptide
 folds into a β-hairpin structure created by two antiparallel
 β-strands, which combine with the already existing triple-stranded
 β-sheet of the toxin to form a five-stranded intermolecular,
 antiparallel β-sheet. Peptide residues Y3P,
 E5P, and L8P have the highest intermolecular
 contact area, indicating their importance in the binding of
 α-bungarotoxin; W1P, R2P, and Y4P
 also contribute significantly to the binding. A large number of
 characteristic hydrogen bonds and electrostatic and hydrophobic
 interactions are observed in the complex. The high-affinity peptide
 exhibits inhibitory potency that is better than any known peptide
 derived from AChR, and is equal to that of the whole α-subunit of
 AChR. The high degree of sequence similarity between the peptide and
 various types of AChRs implies that the binding mode found within the
 complex might possibly mimic the receptor binding to the toxin. The
 design of the high-affinity peptide was based on our previous findings:
 (i) the detection of a lead peptide (MRYYESSLKSYPD) that
 binds α-bungarotoxin, using a phage-display peptide library,
 (ii) the information about the three-dimensional
 structure of α-bungarotoxin/lead-peptide complex, and
 (iii) the amino acid sequence analysis of different
 AChRs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
“Catch,” a state where some invertebrate muscles sustain high
 tension over long periods of time with little energy expenditure (low
 ATP hydrolysis rate) is similar to the “latch” state of
 vertebrate smooth muscles. Its induction and release involve
 Ca2+-dependent phosphatase and cAMP-dependent protein
 kinase, respectively. Molecular mechanisms for catch remain obscure.
 Here, we describe a quantitative microscopic in vitro
 assay reconstituting the catch state with proteins isolated from catch
 muscles. Thick filaments attached to glass coverslips and pretreated
 with ≈10−4 M free Ca2+ and soluble muscle
 proteins bound fluorescently labeled native thin filaments tightly in
 catch at ≈10−8 M free Ca2+ in the presence
 of MgATP. At ≈10−4 M free Ca2+, the thin
 filaments moved at ≈4 μm/s. Addition of cAMP and cAMP-dependent
 protein kinase at ≈10−8 M free Ca2+ caused
 their release. Rabbit skeletal muscle F-actin filaments completely
 reproduced the results obtained with native thin filaments. Binding
 forces >500 pN/μm between thick and F-actin filaments were
 measured by glass microneedles, and were sufficient to explain catch
 tension in vivo. Synthetic filaments of purified myosin
 and twitchin bound F-actin in catch, showing that other components of
 native thick filaments such as paramyosin and catchin are not
 essential. The binding between synthetic thick filaments and F-actin
 filaments depended on phosphorylation of twitchin but not of myosin.
 Cosedimentation experiments showed that twitchin did not bind directly
 to F-actin in catch. These results show that catch is a direct
 actomyosin interaction regulated by twitchin phosphorylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe an approach to the high-resolution
 three-dimensional structural determination of macromolecules that
 utilizes ultrashort, intense x-ray pulses to record diffraction data in
 combination with direct phase retrieval by the oversampling technique.
 It is shown that a simulated molecular diffraction pattern at 2.5-Å
 resolution accumulated from multiple copies of single rubisco
 biomolecules, each generated by a femtosecond-level x-ray free electron
 laser pulse, can be successfully phased and transformed into an
 accurate electron density map comparable to that obtained by more
 conventional methods. The phase problem is solved by using an iterative
 algorithm with a random phase set as an initial input. The convergence
 speed of the algorithm is reasonably fast, typically around a few
 hundred iterations. This approach and phasing method do not require any
 ab initio information about the molecule, do not require an
 extended ordered lattice array, and can tolerate high noise and some
 missing intensity data at the center of the diffraction pattern. With
 the prospects of the x-ray free electron lasers, this approach could
 provide a major new opportunity for the high-resolution
 three-dimensional structure determination of single biomolecules.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The extremely slow α-helix/β-sheet transition of
 proteins is a crucial step in amylogenic diseases and represents an
 internal rearrangement of local contacts in an already folded protein.
 These internal structural rearrangements within an already folded
 protein are a critical aspect of biological action and are a product of
 conformational flow along unknown metastable local minima of the energy
 landscape of the compact protein. We use a diffusional IR mixer with
 time-resolved Fourier transform IR spectroscopy capable of 400-μs
 time resolution to show that the trifluoroethanol driven
 β-sheet to α-helix transition of β-lactoglobulin proceeds via a
 compact β-sheet intermediate with a lifetime of 7 ms, small compared
 with the overall folding time of β-lactoglobulin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Opitz syndrome (OS) is a human genetic disease characterized
 by deformities such as cleft palate that are attributable to defects in
 embryonic development at the midline. Gene mapping has identified OS
 mutations within a protein called Mid1. Wild-type Mid1 predominantly
 colocalizes with microtubules, in contrast to mutant versions of Mid1
 that appear clustered in the cytosol. Using yeast two-hybrid screening,
 we found that the α4-subunit of protein phosphatases 2A/4/6 binds
 Mid1. Epitope-tagged α4 coimmunoprecipitated endogenous
 or coexpressed Mid1 from COS7 cells, and this required only the
 conserved C-terminal region of α4. Localization of Mid1 and α4 was
 influenced by one another in transiently transfected cells. Mid1 could
 recruit α4 onto microtubules, and high levels of α4 could displace
 Mid1 into the cytosol. Metabolic 32P labeling of cells
 showed that Mid1 is a phosphoprotein, and coexpression of full-length
 α4 decreased Mid1 phosphorylation, indicative of a functional
 interaction. Association of green fluorescent protein–Mid1 with
 microtubules in living cells was perturbed by inhibitors of MAP kinase
 activation. The conclusion is that Mid1 association with microtubules,
 which seems important for normal midline development, is regulated by
 dynamic phosphorylation involving MAP kinase and protein phosphatase
 that is targeted specifically to Mid1 by α4. Human birth defects may
 result from environmental or genetic disruption of this regulatory
 cycle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Angiostatin blocks tumor angiogenesis in vivo,
 almost certainly through its demonstrated ability to block endothelial
 cell migration and proliferation. Although the mechanism of angiostatin
 action remains unknown, identification of F1-FO
 ATP synthase as the major angiostatin-binding site on the endothelial
 cell surface suggests that ATP metabolism may play a role in the
 angiostatin response. Previous studies noting the presence of
 F1 ATP synthase subunits on endothelial cells and certain
 cancer cells did not determine whether this enzyme was functional in
 ATP synthesis. We now demonstrate that all components of the
 F1 ATP synthase catalytic core are present on the
 endothelial cell surface, where they colocalize into discrete punctate
 structures. The surface-associated enzyme is active in ATP synthesis as
 shown by dual-label TLC and bioluminescence assays. Both ATP synthase
 and ATPase activities of the enzyme are inhibited by angiostatin as
 well as by antibodies directed against the α- and β-subunits of ATP
 synthase in cell-based and biochemical assays. Our data suggest that
 angiostatin inhibits vascularization by suppression of
 endothelial-surface ATP metabolism, which, in turn, may regulate
 vascular physiology by established mechanisms. We now have shown that
 antibodies directed against subunits of ATP synthase exhibit
 endothelial cell-inhibitory activities comparable to that of
 angiostatin, indicating that these antibodies function as angiostatin
 mimetics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human telomerase, a cellular reverse transcriptase (hTERT), is a
 nuclear ribonucleoprotein enzyme complex that catalyzes the synthesis
 and extension of telomeric DNA. This enzyme is specifically activated
 in most malignant tumors but is usually inactive in normal somatic
 cells, suggesting that telomerase plays an important role in cellular
 immortalization and tumorigenesis. Terminal maturation of tumor cells
 has been associated with the repression of telomerase activity. Using
 maturation-sensitive and -resistant NB4 cell lines, we analyzed the
 pattern of telomerase expression during the therapeutic treatment of
 acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) by retinoids. Two pathways leading
 to the down-regulation of hTERT and telomerase activity were
 identified. The first pathway results in a rapid down-regulation of
 telomerase that is associated with retinoic acid receptor
 (RAR)-dependent maturation of NB4 cells. Furthermore, during NB4 cell
 maturation, obtained independently of RAR by retinoic X receptor
 (RXR)-specific agonists (rexinoids), no change in telomerase activity
 was observed, suggesting that hTERT regulation requires a specific
 signaling and occurs autonomously. A second pathway of hTERT
 regulation, identified in the RAR-responsive, maturation-resistant
 NB4-R1 cell line, results in a down-regulation of telomerase that
 develops slowly during two weeks of all-trans retinoic
 acid (ATRA) treatment. This pathway leads to telomere shortening,
 growth arrest, and cell death, all events that are overcome by ectopic
 expression of hTERT. These findings demonstrate a clear and full
 dissociation between the process of tumor cell maturation and the
 regulation of hTERT mRNA expression and telomerase activity by
 retinoids. We propose telomerase expression as an efficient and
 selective target of retinoids in the therapy of tumors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transcription factor NF-κB regulates expression of genes that
 are involved in inflammation, immune response, viral infection, cell
 survival, and division. However, the role of NF-κB in hypertrophic
 growth of terminally differentiated cardiomyocytes is unknown. Here we
 report that NF-κB activation is required for hypertrophic growth of
 cardiomyocytes. In cultured rat primary neonatal ventricular
 cardiomyocytes, the nuclear translocation of NF-κB and its
 transcriptional activity were stimulated by several hypertrophic
 agonists, including phenylephrine, endothelin-1, and angiotensin II.
 The activation of NF-κB was inhibited by expression of a
 “supersuppressor” IκBα mutant that is resistant to
 stimulation-induced degradation and a dominant negative IκB kinase
 (IKKβ) mutant that can no longer be activated by phosphorylation.
 Furthermore, treatment with phenylephrine induced IκBα degradation
 in an IKK-dependent manner, suggesting that NF-κB is a downstream
 target of the hypertrophic agonists. Importantly, expression of the
 supersuppressor IκBα mutant or the dominant negative IKKβ mutant
 blocked the hypertrophic agonist-induced expression of the embryonic
 gene atrial natriuretic factor and enlargement of cardiomyocytes.
 Conversely, overexpression of NF-κB itself induced atrial natriuretic
 factor expression and cardiomyocyte enlargement. These findings suggest
 that NF-κB plays a critical role in the hypertrophic growth of
 cardiomyocytes and may serve as a potential target for the intervention
 of heart disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although Stat1 is essential for cells to respond fully to IFN-γ,
 there is substantial evidence that, in the absence of Stat1, IFN-γ
 can still regulate the expression of some genes, induce an antiviral
 state and affect cell growth. We have now identified many genes that
 are regulated by IFN-γ in serum-starved Stat1-null mouse fibroblasts.
 The proteins induced by IFN-γ in Stat1-null cells can account for the
 substantial biological responses that remain. Some genes are induced in
 both wild-type and Stat1-null cells and thus are truly
 Stat1-independent. Others are subject to more complex regulation in
 response to IFN-γ, repressed by Stat1 in wild-type cells and
 activated in Stat1-null cells. Many genes induced by IFN-γ in
 Stat1-null fibroblasts also are induced by platelet-derived growth
 factor in wild-type cells and thus are likely to be involved in cell
 proliferation. In mouse cells expressing the docking site mutant Y440F
 of human IFN-γ receptor subunit 1, the mouse Stat1 is not
 phosphorylated in response to human IFN-γ, but c-myc
 and c-jun are still induced, showing that the Stat1
 docking site is not required for Stat1-independent signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although Stat1 is required for many IFN-dependent responses,
 recent work has shown that IFNγ functions independently of Stat1 to
 affect the growth of tumor cells or immortalized fibroblasts. We now
 demonstrate that both IFNγ and IFNα/β regulate
 proliferative responses in cells of the mononuclear phagocyte lineage
 derived from Stat1-null mice. Using both representational difference
 analysis and gene arrays, we show that IFNγ exerts its
 Stat1-independent actions on mononuclear phagocytes by regulating the
 expression of many genes. This result was confirmed by monitoring
 changes in expression and function of the corresponding gene products.
 Regulation of the expression of these genes requires the IFNγ
 receptor and Jak1. The physiologic relevance of IFN-dependent,
 Stat1-independent signaling was demonstrated by monitoring antiviral
 responses in Stat1-null mice. Thus, the IFN receptors engage
 alternative Stat1-independent signaling pathways that have important
 physiological consequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epithelial–mesenchymal transitions (EMTs) are an essential
 manifestation of epithelial cell plasticity during morphogenesis, wound
 healing, and tumor progression. Transforming growth factor-β
 (TGF-β) modulates epithelial plasticity in these physiological
 contexts by inducing EMT. Here we report a transcriptome screen of
 genetic programs of TGF-β-induced EMT in human keratinocytes and
 propose functional roles for extracellular response kinase (ERK)
 mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling in cell motility and
 disruption of adherens junctions. We used DNA arrays of 16,580 human
 cDNAs to identify 728 known genes regulated by TGF-β within 4 hours
 after treatment. TGF-β-stimulated ERK signaling mediated regulation
 of 80 target genes not previously associated with this pathway. This
 subset is enriched for genes with defined roles in cell–matrix
 interactions, cell motility, and endocytosis. ERK-independent genetic
 programs underlying the onset of EMT involve key pathways and
 regulators of epithelial dedifferentiation, undifferentiated
 transitional and mesenchymal progenitor phenotypes, and mediators of
 cytoskeletal reorganization. The gene expression profiling approach
 delineates complex context-dependent signaling pathways and
 transcriptional events that determine epithelial cell plasticity
 controlled by TGF-β. Investigation of the identified pathways and
 genes will advance the understanding of molecular mechanisms that
 underlie tumor invasiveness and metastasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ubiquitously expressed basic helix–loop–helix (bHLH)-PAS
 protein ARNT (arylhydrocarbon receptor
 nuclear transporter) forms transcriptionally
 active heterodimers with a variety of other bHLH-PAS proteins,
 including HIF-1α (hypoxia-inducible
 factor-1α) and AHR
 (arylhydrocarbon receptor). These
 complexes regulate gene expression in response to hypoxia and
 xenobiotics, respectively, and mutation of the murine
 Arnt locus results in embryonic death by day 10.5
 associated with placental, vascular, and hematopoietic defects. The
 closely related protein ARNT2 is highly expressed in the central
 nervous system and kidney and also forms complexes with HIF-1α and
 AHR. To assess unique roles for ARNT2 in development, and reveal
 potential functional overlap with ARNT, we generated a targeted null
 mutation of the murine Arnt2 locus.
 Arnt2−/− embryos die perinatally and
 exhibit impaired hypothalamic development, phenotypes previously
 observed for a targeted mutation in the murine bHLH-PAS gene
 Sim1 (Single-minded 1), and consistent with the recent
 proposal that ARNT2 and SIM1 form an essential heterodimer in
 vivo [Michaud, J. L., DeRossi, C., May, N. R.,
 Holdener, B. C. & Fan, C. (2000) Mech. Dev. 90,
 253–261]. In addition, cultured Arnt2−/−
 neurons display decreased hypoxic induction of HIF-1 target genes,
 demonstrating formally that ARNT2/HIF-1α complexes regulate
 oxygen-responsive genes. Finally, a strong genetic interaction between
 Arnt and Arnt2 mutations was observed,
 indicating that either gene can fulfill essential functions in a
 dose-dependent manner before embryonic day 8.5. These results
 demonstrate that Arnt and Arnt2 have both
 unique and overlapping essential functions in embryonic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In humans, SOX9 heterozygous mutations cause the
 severe skeletal dysmorphology syndrome campomelic dysplasia. Except for
 clinical descriptions, little is known about the pathogenesis of this
 disease. We have generated heterozygous Sox9 mutant mice
 that phenocopy most of the skeletal abnormalities of this syndrome. The
 Sox9+/− mice died perinatally with cleft
 palate, as well as hypoplasia and bending of many skeletal structures
 derived from cartilage precursors. In embryonic day (E)14.5
 heterozygous embryos, bending of radius, ulna, and tibia cartilages was
 already prominent. In E12.5 heterozygotes, all skeletal elements
 visualized by using Alcian blue were smaller. In addition, the overall
 levels of Col2a1 RNA at E10.5 and E12.5 were lower than
 in wild-type embryos. We propose that the skeletal abnormalities
 observed at later embryonic stages were caused by delayed or defective
 precartilaginous condensations. Furthermore, in E18.5 embryos and in
 newborn heterozygotes, premature mineralization occurred in many bones,
 including vertebrae and some craniofacial bones. Because
 Sox9 is not expressed in the mineralized portion of the
 growth plate, this premature mineralization is very likely the
 consequence of allele insufficiency existing in cells of the growth
 plate that express Sox9. Because the hypertrophic zone
 of the heterozygous Sox9 mutants was larger than that of
 wild-type mice, we propose that Sox9 also has a role in
 regulating the transition to hypertrophic chondrocytes in the growth
 plate. Despite the severe hypoplasia of cartilages, the overall
 organization and cellular composition of the growth plate were
 otherwise normal. Our results suggest the hypothesis that two critical
 steps of the chondrocyte differentiation pathway are sensitive to
 Sox9 dosage. First, an early step presumably at the
 stage of mesenchymal condensation of cartilage primordia, and
 second, a later step preceding the transition of chondrocytes into
 hypertrophic chondrocytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
If environmental stress provides conditions under which positive
 relationships between plant species richness and productivity become
 apparent, then species that seem functionally redundant under constant
 conditions may add to community functioning under variable conditions.
 Using naturally co-occurring mosses and liverworts, we constructed
 bryophyte communities to test relationships between species diversity
 (1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24, or 32 species) and productivity under constant
 conditions and when exposed to experimental drought. We found no
 relationship between species richness and biomass under constant
 conditions. However, when communities were exposed to experimental
 drought, biomass increased with species richness. Responses of
 individual species demonstrated that facilitative interactions rather
 than sampling effects or niche complementarity best explained
 results—survivorship increased for almost all species, and those
 species least resistant to drought in monoculture had the greatest
 increase in biomass. Positive interactions may be an important but
 previously underemphasized mechanism linking high diversity to high
 productivity under stressful environmental conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Drosophila melanogaster from Zimbabwe and nearby
 regions shows strong but asymmetric sexual isolation from its
 cosmopolitan counterparts. By creating stable chromosome-substitution
 lines, earlier studies were able to show that the two major autosomes
 have very large effects on both male mating success and female mating
 preference. In this study, we genetically dissect this sexual isolation
 by recombination analysis between a whole-chromosome substitution line
 (which carries a Zimbabwe-derived third chromosome) and a strain with
 seven visible markers on that chromosome. Four loci are responsible for
 male mating success and three others are found to control female mating
 preference. Because male and female traits are not closely linked,
 their strong association among isofemale lines is most likely a
 reflection of sexual selection in nature. The results suggest that a
 large number of behavioral loci may evolve concurrently in the
 incipient stage of speciation before other aspects of reproductive
 isolation (such as hybrid sterility) have become evident. The results
 shed light on the population genetic processes underlying the formation
 of nascent species, as well as modes of speciation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genetic basis of sexual isolation that contributes to
 speciation is one of the unsolved questions in evolutionary biology.
 Drosophila ananassae and Drosophila
 pallidosa are closely related, and postmating isolation has not
 developed between them. However, females of both species discriminate
 their mating partners, and this discrimination contributes to strong
 sexual isolation between them. By using surgical treatments, we
 demonstrate that male courtship songs play a dominant role in female
 mate discrimination. The absence of the song of D.
 pallidosa dramatically increased interspecies mating with
 D. ananassae females but reduced intraspecies mating
 with D. pallidosa females. Furthermore, genetic analysis
 and chromosomal introgression by repeated backcrosses to D.
 pallidosa males identified possible loci that control female
 discrimination in each species. These loci were mapped on distinct
 positions near the Delta locus on the middle of the left
 arm of the second chromosome. Because the mate discrimination we
 studied is well developed and is the only known mechanism that prevents
 gene flow between them, these loci may have played crucial roles in the
 evolution of reproductive isolation, and therefore, in the speciation
 process between these two species.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The class Bdelloidea of the phylum Rotifera is the largest well
 studied eukaryotic taxon in which males and meiosis are unknown, and
 the only one for which these indications of ancient asexuality are
 supported by cytological and molecular genetic evidence. We estimated
 the rates of synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions in the
 hsp82 heat shock gene in bdelloids and in facultatively
 sexual rotifers of the class Monogononta, employing distance based and
 maximum likelihood methods. Relative-rate tests, using acanthocephalan
 rotifers as an outgroup, showed slightly higher rates of nonsynonymous
 substitution and slightly lower rates of synonymous substitution in
 bdelloids as compared with monogononts. The opposite trend, however,
 was seen in intraclass pairwise comparisons. If, as it seems, bdelloids
 have evolved asexually, an equality of bdelloid and monogonont
 substitution rates would suggest that the maintenance of sexual
 reproduction in monogononts is not attributable to an effect of sexual
 reproduction in limiting the load of deleterious nucleotide
 substitutions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have analyzed 75 isolates of Plasmodium
 falciparum, collected in Venezuela during both the dry
 (November) and rainy (May–July) seasons, with a range of genetic
 markers including antigen genes and 14 random amplified polymorphic DNA
 (RAPD) primers. Thirteen P. falciparum stocks from Kenya
 and four other Plasmodium species are included in the
 analysis for comparison. Cross-hybridization shows that the 14 RAPD
 primers reveal 14 separate regions of the parasite's genome. The
 P. falciparum isolates are a monophyletic clade,
 significantly different from the other Plasmodium
 species. We identify three RAPD characters that could be useful as
 “tags” for rapid species identification. The Venezuelan genotypes
 fall into two discrete genetic subdivisions associated with either the
 dry or the rainy season; the isolates collected in the rainy season
 exhibit greater genetic diversity. There is significant linkage
 disequilibrium in each seasonal subsample and in the full sample. In
 contrast, no linkage disequilibrium is detected in the African sample.
 These results support the hypothesis that the population structure of
 P. falciparum in Venezuela, but not in Africa, is
 predominantly clonal. However, the impact of genetic recombination on
 Venezuelan P. falciparum seems higher than in parasitic
 species with long-term clonal evolution like Trypanosoma
 cruzi, the agent of Chagas' disease. The genetic structure of
 the Venezuelan samples is similar to that of Escherichia
 coli, a bacterium that propagates clonally, with occasional
 genetic recombination.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Precise classification of tumors is critically important for cancer
 diagnosis and treatment. It is also a scientifically challenging task.
 Recently, efforts have been made to use gene expression profiles to
 improve the precision of classification, with limited success. Using a
 published data set for purposes of comparison, we introduce a
 methodology based on classification trees and demonstrate that it is
 significantly more accurate for discriminating among distinct colon
 cancer tissues than other statistical approaches used heretofore. In
 addition, competing classification trees are displayed, which suggest
 that different genes may coregulate colon cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Single-gene mutations that extend lifespan provide valuable tools
 for the exploration of the molecular basis for age-related changes in
 cell and tissue function and for the pathophysiology of age-dependent
 diseases. We show here that mice homozygous for loss-of-function
 mutations at the Pit1 (Snell dwarf) locus show a
 >40% increase in mean and maximal longevity on the relatively
 long-lived (C3H/HeJ × DW/J)F1 background. Mutant
 dwJ/dw animals show delays
 in age-dependent collagen cross-linking and in six age-sensitive
 indices of immune system status. These findings thus demonstrate that a
 single gene can control maximum lifespan and the timing of both
 cellular and extracellular senescence in a mammal. Pituitary
 transplantation into dwarf mice does not reverse the lifespan effect,
 suggesting that the effect is not due to lowered prolactin levels. In
 contrast, homozygosity for the Ghrhrlit
 mutation, which like the Pit1dw mutation
 lowers plasma growth hormone levels, does lead to a significant
 increase in longevity. Male Snell dwarf mice, unlike calorically
 restricted mice, become obese and exhibit proportionately high leptin
 levels in old age, showing that their exceptional longevity is not
 simply due to alterations in adiposity per se. Further
 studies of the Pit1dw mutant, and the
 closely related, long-lived Prop-1df (Ames
 dwarf) mutant, should provide new insights into the hormonal regulation
 of senescence, longevity, and late life disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Homologous DNA recombination is a fundamental, regenerative process
 within living organisms. However, in most organisms, homologous
 recombination is a rare event, requiring a complex set of reactions and
 extensive homology. We demonstrate in this paper that Beta protein of
 phage λ generates recombinants in chromosomal DNA by using synthetic
 single-stranded DNAs (ssDNA) as short as 30 bases long. This ssDNA
 recombination can be used to mutagenize or repair the chromosome with
 efficiencies that generate up to 6% recombinants among treated cells.
 Mechanistically, it appears that Beta protein, a Rad52-like protein,
 binds and anneals the ssDNA donor to a complementary single-strand near
 the DNA replication fork to generate the recombinant. This type of
 homologous recombination with ssDNA provides new avenues for studying
 and modifying genomes ranging from bacterial pathogens to eukaryotes.
 Beta protein and ssDNA may prove generally applicable for repairing DNA
 in many organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The stem cell leukemia (SCL) gene encodes a
 tissue-specific basic helix–loop–helix (bHLH) protein with a pivotal
 role in hemopoiesis and vasculogenesis. Several enhancers have been
 identified within the murine SCL locus that direct
 reporter gene expression to subdomains of the normal SCL
 expression pattern, and long-range sequence comparisons of the human
 and murine SCL loci have identified additional candidate
 enhancers. To facilitate the characterization of regulatory elements,
 we have sequenced and analyzed 33 kb of the SCL genomic
 locus from the pufferfish Fugu rubripes, a species with
 a highly compact genome. Although the pattern of SCL
 expression is highly conserved from mammals to teleost fish, the genes
 flanking pufferfish SCL were unrelated to those known to
 flank both avian and mammalian SCL genes. These data
 suggest that SCL regulatory elements are confined to the
 region between the upstream and downstream flanking genes, a region of
 65 kb in human and 8.5 kb in pufferfish. Consistent with this
 hypothesis, the entire 33-kb pufferfish SCL locus
 directed appropriate expression to hemopoietic and neural tissue in
 transgenic zebrafish embryos, as did a 10.4-kb fragment containing the
 SCL gene and extending to the 5′ and 3′ flanking genes.
 These results demonstrate the power of combining the compact genome of
 the pufferfish with the advantages that zebrafish provide for studies
 of gene regulation during development. Furthermore, the pufferfish
 SCL locus provides a powerful tool for the manipulation
 of hemopoiesis and vasculogenesis in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The fate of redundant genes resulting from genome duplication is
 poorly understood. Previous studies indicated that ribosomal RNA genes
 from one parental origin are epigenetically silenced during
 interspecific hybridization or polyploidization. Regulatory mechanisms
 for protein-coding genes in polyploid genomes are unknown, partly
 because of difficulty in studying expression patterns of homologous
 genes. Here we apply amplified fragment length polymorphism
 (AFLP)–cDNA display to perform a genome-wide screen for orthologous
 genes silenced in Arabidopsis suecica, an allotetraploid
 derived from Arabidopsis thaliana and
 Cardaminopsis arenosa. We identified ten genes that are
 silenced from either A. thaliana or C.
 arenosa origin in A. suecica and located in four
 of the five A. thaliana chromosomes. These genes
 represent a variety of RNA and predicted proteins including four
 transcription factors such as TCP3. The silenced genes in the vicinity
 of TCP3 are hypermethylated and reactivated by blocking
 DNA methylation, suggesting epigenetic regulation is involved in the
 expression of orthologous genes in polyploid genomes. Compared with
 classic genetic mutations, epigenetic regulation may be advantageous
 for selection and adaptation of polyploid species during evolution and
 development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tc1/mariner elements are able to transpose in
 species other than the host from which they were isolated. As potential
 vectors for insertional mutagenesis and transgenesis of the mouse,
 these cut-and-paste transposons were tested for their ability to
 transpose in the mouse germ line. First, the levels of activity of
 several Tc1/mariner elements in mammalian cells were
 compared; the reconstructed fish transposon Sleeping Beauty (SB) was
 found to be an order of magnitude more efficient than the other tested
 transposons. SB then was introduced into the mouse germ line as a
 two-component system: one transgene for the expression of the
 transposase in the male germ line and a second transgene carrying a
 modified transposon. In 20% of the progeny of double transgenic male
 mice the transposon had jumped from the original chromosomal position
 into another locus. Analysis of the integration sites shows that these
 jumps indeed occurred through the action of SB transposase, and that SB
 has a strong preference for intrachromosomal transposition. Analysis of
 the excision sites suggests that double-strand breaks in haploid
 spermatids are repaired via nonhomologous end joining. The SB system
 may be a powerful tool for transposon mutagenesis of the mouse germ
 line.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Biochemical studies with model DNA heteroduplexes have implicated
 RecJ exonuclease, exonuclease VII, exonuclease I, and exonuclease X in
 Escherichia coli methyl-directed mismatch correction.
 However, strains deficient in the four exonucleases display only a
 modest increase in mutation rate, raising questions concerning
 involvement of these activities in mismatch repair in
 vivo. The quadruple mutant deficient in the four exonucleases,
 as well as the triple mutant deficient in RecJ exonuclease, exonuclease
 VII, and exonuclease I, grow poorly in the presence of the base
 analogue 2-aminopurine, and exposure to the base analogue results in
 filament formation, indicative of induction of SOS DNA damage response.
 The growth defect and filamentation phenotypes associated with
 2-aminopurine exposure are effectively suppressed by null mutations in
 mutH, mutL, mutS, or
 uvrD/mutU, which encode activities that act upstream
 of the four exonucleases in the mechanism for the methyl-directed
 reaction that has been proposed based on in vitro
 studies. The quadruple exonuclease mutant is also cold-sensitive,
 having a severe growth defect at 30°C. This phenotype is suppressed
 by a uvrD/mutU defect, and partially suppressed by
 mutH, mutL, or mutS
 mutations. These observations confirm involvement of the four
 exonucleases in methyl-directed mismatch repair in vivo
 and suggest that the low mutability of exonuclease-deficient strains is
 a consequence of under recovery of mutants due to a reduction in
 viability and/or chromosome loss associated with activation of the
 mismatch repair system in the absence of RecJ exonuclease, exonuclease
 VII, exonuclease I, and exonuclease X.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cell–cell recognition often requires the formation of a highly
 organized pattern of receptor proteins (a synapse) in the intercellular
 junction. Recent experiments [e.g., Monks, C. R. F.,
 Freiberg, B. A., Kupfer, H., Sciaky, N. & Kupfer, A. (1998)
 Nature (London) 395, 82–86; Grakoui, A., Bromley,
 S. K., Sumen, C., Davis, M. M., Shaw, A. S., Allen,
 P. M. & Dustin, M. L. (1999) Science 285,
 221–227; and Davis, D. M., Chiu, I., Fassett, M., Cohen, G.
 B., Mandelboim, O. & Strominger, J. L. (1999) Proc. Natl.
 Acad. Sci. USA 96, 15062–15067] vividly demonstrate a complex
 evolution of cell shape and spatial receptor–ligand patterns (several
 microns in size) in the intercellular junction during immunological
 synapse formation. The current view is that this dynamic rearrangement
 of proteins into organized supramolecular activation clusters is driven
 primarily by active cytoskeletal processes [e.g., Dustin, M. L. &
 Cooper, J. A. (2000) Nat. Immunol. 1, 23–29; and
 Wulfing, C. & Davis, M. M. (1998) Science 282,
 2266–2269]. Here, aided by a quantitative analysis of the relevant
 physico-chemical processes, we demonstrate that the essential
 characteristics of synaptic patterns observed in living cells can
 result from spontaneous self-assembly processes. Active cellular
 interventions are superimposed on these self-organizing tendencies and
 may also serve to regulate the spontaneous processes. We find that the
 protein binding/dissociation characteristics, protein mobilities, and
 membrane constraints measured in the cellular environment are
 delicately balanced such that the length and time scales of
 spontaneously evolving patterns are in near-quantitative agreement with
 observations for synapse formation between T cells and supported
 membranes [Grakoui, A., Bromley, S. K., Sumen, C., Davis, M.
 M., Shaw, A. S., Allen, P. M. & Dustin, M. L. (1999)
 Science 285, 221–227]. The model we present provides a
 common way of analyzing immunological synapse formation in disparate
 systems (e.g., T cell/antigen-presenting cell junctions with
 different MHC-peptides, natural killer cells, etc.).
DOC DONE!Abstract
An extensive, highly diversified multigene family of novel
 immune-type receptor (nitr) genes has been defined in
 Danio rerio (zebrafish). The genes are predicted to
 encode type I transmembrane glycoproteins consisting of extracellular
 variable (V) and V-like C2 (V/C2) domains, a transmembrane region and
 a cytoplasmic tail. All of the genes examined encode immunoreceptor
 tyrosine-based inhibition motifs in the cytoplasmic tail. Radiation
 hybrid panel mapping and analysis of a deletion mutant line (b240)
 indicate that a minimum of ≈40 nitr genes are
 contiguous in the genome and span ≈0.6 Mb near the top of zebrafish
 linkage group 7. One flanking region of the nitr gene
 complex shares conserved synteny with a region of mouse chromosome 7,
 which shares conserved synteny with human 19q13.3-q13.4 that encodes
 the leukocyte receptor cluster. Antibody-induced crosslinking of Nitrs
 that have been introduced into a human natural killer cell line
 inhibits the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase that
 is triggered by natural killer-sensitive tumor target cells. Nitrs
 likely represent intermediates in the evolution of the leukocyte
 receptor cluster.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Quantitative and qualitative defects in CD1-restricted natural
 killer T cells have been reported in several autoimmune-prone strains
 of mice, including the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse. These defects are
 believed to be associated with the emergence of spontaneous
 autoimmunity. Here we demonstrate that both CD1d-null NOD and CD1d-null
 NOD/BDC2.5 T cell receptor transgenic mice have an accelerated onset
 and increased incidence of diabetes when compared with
 CD1d+/− and CD1d+/+ littermates. The
 acceleration of disease did not seem to result from changes in the T
 helper (Th)1/Th2 balance because lymphocytes purified from lymphoid
 organs and pancreatic islets of wild-type and CD1d-null mice secreted
 equivalent amounts of IFN-γ and IL-4 after stimulation. In contrast,
 the pancreata of CD1d-null mice harbored significantly higher numbers
 of activated memory T cells expressing the chemokine receptor CCR4.
 Notably, the presence of these T cells was associated with
 immunohistochemical evidence of increased destructive insulitis. Thus,
 CD1d-restricted T cells are critically important for regulation of the
 spontaneous disease process in NOD mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Lymphocytes from blood or tumors of patients with advanced
 cancer did not proliferate and produced very low levels of tumor
 necrosis factor and IFN-γ when cultured with autologous tumor cells.
 Proliferation and lymphokine production dramatically increased in the
 presence of beads conjugated with mAbs to CD3 plus mAbs to CD28
 and/or CD40, and the lymphocytes destroyed the tumor cells.
 Expression density of CD3 concomitantly increased from low to normal
 levels. Furthermore, beads providing a CD3 signal (in combination with
 CD28 or CD28 plus CD40) gave partial protection against the inhibitory
 effect of transforming growth factor type β1 on lymphocyte
 proliferation and production of tumor necrosis factor and IFN-γ. MHC
 class I-restricted cytolytic T cells lysing autologous tumor cells in a
 4-h Cr51 release assay were generated when peripheral blood
 leukocytes were activated in the presence of autologous tumor cells and
 anti-CD3/CD28 or anti-CD3/CD28/CD40 beads. Experiments performed
 in a model system using anti-V-β1 or anti-V-β2 mAbs to activate
 subsets of T cells expressing restricted T cell receptor showed that
 lymphocytes previously activated by anti-V-β can respond to CD3
 stimulation with vigorous proliferation and lymphokine production while
 retaining their specificity, also in the presence of transforming
 growth factor type β1. Our results suggest that T lymphocytes from
 cancer patients can proliferate and form Th1 type lymphokines in the
 presence of autologous tumor cell when properly activated, and that
 antigen released from killed tumor cells and presented by
 antigen-presenting cells in the cultures facilitates the selective
 expansion of tumor-directed, CD8+ cytolytic T cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The balance between cell survival and cell death is critical
 for normal lymphoid development. This balance is maintained by signals
 through lymphocyte antigen receptors and death receptors such as
 CD95/Fas. In some cells, ligating the B cell antigen receptor can
 protect the cell from apoptosis induced by CD95. Here we report
 that ligation of CD95 inhibits antigen receptor-mediated signaling.
 Pretreating CD40-stimulated tonsillar B cells with anti-CD95 abolished
 B cell antigen receptor-mediated calcium mobilization. Furthermore,
 CD95 ligation led to the caspase-dependent inhibition of antigen
 receptor-induced calcium mobilization and to the activation of
 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways in B and T cell lines. A
 target of CD95-mediated caspase 3-like activity early in the
 apoptotic process is the adaptor protein GrpL/Gads. GrpL
 constitutively interacts with SLP-76 via its C-terminal SH3 domain to
 regulate transcription factors such as NF-AT. Cleavage of GrpL removes
 the C-terminal SH3 domain so that it is no longer capable of recruiting
 SLP-76 to the membrane. Transfection of a truncated form of GrpL into
 Jurkat T cells blocked T cell antigen receptor-induced activation of
 NF-AT. These results suggest that CD95 signaling can desensitize
 antigen receptors, in part via cleavage of the GrpL adaptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many persistent viruses have evolved the ability to subvert MHC
 class I antigen presentation. Indeed, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV)
 encodes at least four proteins that down-regulate cell-surface
 expression of class I. The HCMV unique short (US)2 glycoprotein binds
 newly synthesized class I molecules within the endoplasmic reticulum
 (ER) and subsequently targets them for proteasomal degradation. We
 report the crystal structure of US2 bound to the HLA-A2/Tax peptide
 complex. US2 associates with HLA-A2 at the junction of the
 peptide-binding region and the α3 domain, a novel binding surface on
 class I that allows US2 to bind independently of peptide sequence.
 Mutation of class I heavy chains confirms the importance of this
 binding site in vivo. Available data on class I-ER
 chaperone interactions indicate that chaperones would not impede US2
 binding. Unexpectedly, the US2 ER-luminal domain forms an Ig-like fold.
 A US2 structure-based sequence alignment reveals that seven HCMV
 proteins, at least three of which function in immune evasion, share the
 same fold as US2. The structure allows design of further experiments to
 determine how US2 targets class I molecules for degradation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a central role in regulating immune
 activation and responses to self. DC maturation is central to the
 outcome of antigen presentation to T cells. Maturation of DCs is
 inhibited by physiological levels of 1α,25 dihydroxyvitamin
 D3 [1α,25(OH)2D3] and a related
 analog,
 1α,25(OH)2-16-ene-23-yne-26,27-hexafluoro-19-nor-vitamin
 D3 (D3 analog). Conditioning of bone marrow
 cultures with 10−10 M D3 analog resulted in
 accumulation of immature DCs with reduced IL-12 secretion and without
 induction of transforming growth factor β1. These DCs retained an
 immature phenotype after withdrawal of D3 analog and
 exhibited blunted responses to maturing stimuli (CD40 ligation,
 macrophage products, or lipopolysaccharide). Resistance to maturation
 depended on the presence of the 1α,25(OH)2D3
 receptor (VDR). In an in vivo model of DC-mediated
 antigen-specific sensitization, D3 analog-conditioned DCs
 failed to sensitize and, instead, promoted prolonged survival of
 subsequent skin grafts expressing the same antigen. To investigate the
 physiologic significance of
 1α,25(OH)2D3/VDR-mediated modulation of DC
 maturity we analyzed DC populations from mice lacking VDR. Compared
 with wild-type animals, VDR-deficient mice had hypertrophy of
 subcutaneous lymph nodes and an increase in mature DCs in lymph nodes
 but not spleen. We conclude that
 1α,25(OH)2D3/VDR mediates physiologically
 relevant inhibition of DC maturity that is resistant to maturational
 stimuli and modulates antigen-specific immune responses in
 vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The alloreactive human T cell clone MBM15 was found to exhibit dual
 specificity recognizing both an antigen in the context of the HLA class
 I A2 molecule and an antigen in the context of the HLA class II DR1. We
 demonstrated that the dual reactivity that was mediated via a single
 clonal T cell population depended on specific peptide binding. For
 complete recognition of the HLA-A2-restricted specificity the
 interaction of CD8 with HLA class I is essential. Interestingly,
 interaction of the CD8 molecule with HLA class I contributed to the
 HLA-DR1-restricted specificity. T cell clone MBM15 expressed two
 in-frame T cell receptor (TCR) Vα transcripts (Vα1 and Vα2) and
 one TCR Vβ transcript (Vβ13). To elucidate whether two TCR
 complexes were responsible for the dual recognition or one complex,
 cytotoxic T cells were transduced with retroviral vectors encoding the
 different TCR chains. Only T cells transduced with the TCR Vα1Vβ13
 combination specifically recognized both the HLA-A2+ and
 HLA-DR1+ target cells, whereas the Vα2Vβ13 combination
 did not result in a TCR on the cell surface. Thus a single TCRαβ
 complex can have dual specificity, recognizing both a peptide in the
 context of HLA class I as well as a peptide in the context of HLA class
 II. Transactivation of T cells by an unrelated antigen in the context
 of HLA class II may evoke an HLA class I-specific T cell response. We
 propose that this finding may have major implications for
 immunotherapeutic interventions and insight into the development of
 autoimmune diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We inoculated BALB/c mice deficient in STAT6
 (STAT6−/−) and their wild-type (wt) littermates
 (STAT6+/+) with the natural mouse pathogen, ectromelia
 virus (EV). STAT6−/− mice exhibited increased resistance
 to generalized infection with EV when compared with
 STAT6+/+ mice. In the spleens and lymph nodes of
 STAT6−/− mice, T helper 1 (Th1) cytokines were induced at
 earlier time points and at higher levels postinfection when compared
 with those in STAT6+/+ mice. Elevated levels of NO were
 evident in plasma and splenocyte cultures of EV-infected
 STAT6−/− mice in comparison with STAT6+/+
 mice. The induction of high levels of Th1 cytokines in the mutant mice
 correlated with a strong natural killer cell response. We demonstrate
 in genetically susceptible BALB/c mice that the STAT6 locus is
 critical for progression of EV infection. Furthermore, in the absence
 of this transcription factor, the immune system defaults toward a
 protective Th1-like response, conferring pronounced resistance to EV
 infection and disease progression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the current study, cellular and molecular approaches have been
 used to analyze the biophysical nature of T cell receptor
 (TCR)–peptide MHC (pMHC) interactions for two autoreactive TCRs. These
 two TCRs recognize the N-terminal epitope of myelin basic protein
 (MBP1–11) bound to the MHC class II protein, I-Au, and are
 associated with murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Mice
 transgenic for the TCRs have been generated and characterized in other
 laboratories. These analyses indicate that the mice either develop
 encephalomyelitis spontaneously (172.10 TCR) or only if immunized with
 autoantigen in adjuvant (1934.4 TCR). Here, we show that the 172.10 TCR
 binds MBP1–11:I-Au with a 4–5-fold higher affinity than
 the 1934.4 TCR. Consistent with the higher affinity, 172.10 T hybridoma
 cells are significantly more responsive to autoantigen than 1934.4
 cells. The interaction of the 172.10 TCR with cognate ligand is more
 entropically unfavorable than that of the 1934.4 TCR, indicating that
 the 172.10 TCR undergoes greater conformational rearrangements upon
 ligand binding. The studies therefore suggest a correlation between the
 strength and plasticity of a TCR–pMHC interaction and the frequency of
 spontaneous disease in the corresponding TCR transgenic mice. The
 comparative analysis of these two TCRs has implications for
 understanding autoreactive T cell recognition and activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
T cell receptor (TCR) allelic exclusion is believed to be primarily
 mediated by suppression of further recombination at the TCR locus after
 the expression of a functional TCR protein. Genetic allelic exclusion
 has been shown to be leaky for the β chain and, more commonly, for
 the α chain. Here, we demonstrate an additional mechanism by which T
 cells can maintain monoclonality. T cells from double TCR transgenic
 mice express only one or the other of the two available TCRs at the
 cell surface. This “functional allelic exclusion” is apparently
 due to control of the TCR assembly process because these T cells
 express RNA and protein for all four transgenic TCR proteins. Lack of
 cell surface expression of the second TCR may be controlled by a
 failure to assemble the TCR heterodimer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dimeric intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) binds more
 efficiently to lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) than
 monomeric ICAM-1. However, it is unknown whether dimerization enhances
 binding simply by providing two ligand-binding sites and thereby
 increasing avidity, or whether it serves to generate a single “fully
 competent” LFA-1-binding surface. Domain 1 of ICAM-1 contains both
 the binding site for LFA-1, centered on residue E34, and a
 homodimerization interface. Whether the LFA-1-binding site extends
 across the homodimerization interface has not been tested. To address
 this question, we constructed four different heterodimeric soluble
 forms of ICAM-1 joined at the C terminus via an α-helical coiled coil
 (ACID-BASE). These heterodimeric ICAM-1 constructs include,
 (i) E34/E34 (two intact LFA-1-binding sites),
 (ii) E34/K34 (one disrupted LFA-1-binding site),
 (iii) E34/ΔD1–2 (one deleted LFA-1-binding site),
 and (iv) K34/K34 (two disrupted LFA-1-binding sites).
 Cells bearing activated LFA-1 bound similarly to surfaces coated with
 either E34/K34 or E34/ΔD1–2 and with an ≈2-fold reduction in
 efficiency compared with E34/E34, suggesting that D1 dimerization,
 which is precluded in E34/ΔD1-D2, is not necessary for optimal
 LFA-1 binding. Furthermore, BIAcore (BIAcore, Piscataway, NJ) affinity
 measurements revealed that soluble open LFA-1 I domain bound to
 immobilized soluble ICAM-1, E34/E34, E34/K34, and E34/ΔD1-D2
 with nearly identical affinities. These studies demonstrate that a
 single ICAM-1 monomer, not dimeric ICAM-1, represents the complete,
 “fully competent” LFA-1-binding surface.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Copper serves as an essential cofactor for a variety of proteins in
 all living organisms. Previously, we described a human gene
 (CTR1;SLC31A1) that encodes a high-affinity
 copper-uptake protein and hypothesized that this protein is required
 for copper delivery to mammalian cells. Here, we test this hypothesis
 by inactivating the Ctr1 gene in mice by targeted
 mutagenesis. We observe early embryonic lethality in homozygous mutant
 embryos and a deficiency in copper uptake in the brains of heterozygous
 animals. Ctr1−/− embryos can be recovered
 at E8.5 but are severely developmentally retarded and morphologically
 abnormal. Histological analysis reveals discontinuities and variable
 thickness in the basement membrane of the embryonic region and an
 imperfect Reichert's membrane, features that are likely due to lack of
 activity in the collagen cross-linking cupro-enzyme lysyl oxidase. A
 collapsed embryonic cavity, the absence of an allantois, retarded
 mesodermal migration, and increased cell death are also apparent. In
 the brains of heterozygous adult mice, which at 16 months are
 phenotypically normal, copper is reduced to approximately half compared
 with control littermates, implicating CTR1 as the required port for
 copper entry into at least this organ. A study of the spatial and
 temporal expression pattern of Ctr1 during mouse
 development and adulthood further shows that CTR1 is ubiquitously
 transcribed with highest expression observed in the specialized
 epithelia of the choroid plexus and renal tubules and in connective
 tissues of the eye, ovary, and testes. We conclude that CTR1 is the
 primary avenue for copper uptake in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The trace metal copper (Cu) plays an essential role in biology as a
 cofactor for many enzymes that include Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase,
 cytochrome oxidase, ceruloplasmin, lysyl oxidase, and dopamine
 β-hydroxylase. Consequently, Cu transport at the cell surface and the
 delivery of Cu to intracellular compartments are critical events for a
 wide variety of biological processes. The components that orchestrate
 intracellular Cu trafficking and their roles in Cu homeostasis have
 been elucidated by the studies of model microorganisms and by the
 characterizations of molecular basis of Cu-related genetic diseases,
 including Menkes disease and Wilson disease. However, little is known
 about the mechanisms for Cu uptake at the plasma membrane and the
 consequences of defects in this process in mammals. Here, we show that
 the mouse Ctr1 gene encodes a component of the Cu
 transport machinery and that mice heterozygous for Ctr1
 exhibit tissue-specific defects in copper accumulation and in the
 activities of copper-dependent enzymes. Mice completely deficient for
 Ctr1 exhibit profound growth and developmental defects
 and die in utero in mid-gestation. These results
 demonstrate a crucial role for Cu acquisition through the Ctr1
 transporter for mammalian Cu homeostasis and embryonic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Copper plays a fundamental role in the biochemistry of all aerobic
 organisms. The delivery of this metal to specific intracellular targets
 is mediated by metallochaperones. To elucidate the role of the
 metallochaperone Atox1, we analyzed mice with a disruption of
 the Atox1 locus. Atox1−/−
 mice failed to thrive immediately after birth, with 45% of pups dying
 before weaning. Surviving animals exhibited growth failure, skin
 laxity, hypopigmentation, and seizures because of perinatal copper
 deficiency. Maternal Atox1 deficiency markedly increased the severity
 of Atox1−/− phenotype, resulting in
 increased perinatal mortality as well as severe growth retardation and
 congenital malformations among surviving
 Atox1−/− progeny. Furthermore,
 Atox1-deficient cells accumulated high levels of intracellular copper,
 and metabolic studies indicated that this defect was because of
 impaired cellular copper efflux. Taken together, these data reveal a
 direct role for Atox1 in trafficking of intracellular copper to the
 secretory pathway of mammalian cells and demonstrate that this
 metallochaperone plays a critical role in perinatal copper
 homeostasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A mammalian A-type cyclin, cyclin A1, is highly expressed in testes
 of both human and mouse and targeted mutagenesis in the mouse has
 revealed the unique requirement for cyclin A1 in the progression of
 male germ cells through the meiotic cell cycle. While very low levels
 of cyclin A1 have been reported in the human hematopoietic system and
 brain, the sites of elevated levels of expression of human cyclin A1
 were several leukemia cell lines and blood samples from patients with
 hematopoietic malignances, notably acute myeloid leukemia. To evaluate
 whether cyclin A1 is directly involved with the development of myeloid
 leukemia, mouse cyclin A1 protein was overexpressed in the myeloid
 lineage of transgenic mice under the direction of the human cathepsin G
 (hCG) promoter. The resulting transgenic mice exhibited an increased
 proportion of immature myeloid cells in the peripheral blood, bone
 marrow, and spleen. The abnormal myelopoiesis developed within the
 first few months after birth and progressed to overt acute myeloid
 leukemia at a low frequency (≈15%) over the course of 7–14 months.
 Both the abnormalities in myelopoiesis and the leukemic state could be
 transplanted to irradiated SCID (severe combined immunodeficient) mice.
 The observations suggest that cyclin A1 overexpression results in
 abnormal myelopoiesis and is necessary, but not sufficient in the
 cooperative events inducing the transformed phenotype. The data further
 support an important role of cyclin A1 in hematopoiesis and the
 etiology of myeloid leukemia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Coupling of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral metabolic
 rate for oxygen (CMRO2) in physiologically activated brain
 states remains the subject of debates. Recently it was suggested that
 CBF is tightly coupled to oxidative metabolism in a nonlinear fashion.
 As part of this hypothesis, mathematical models of oxygen delivery to
 the brain have been described in which disproportionately large
 increases in CBF are necessary to sustain even small increases in
 CMRO2 during activation. We have explored the coupling of
 CBF and oxygen delivery by using two complementary methods. First, a
 more complex mathematical model was tested that differs from those
 recently described in that no assumptions were made regarding tissue
 oxygen level. Second, [15O] water CBF positron emission
 tomography (PET) studies in nine healthy subjects were conducted during
 states of visual activation and hypoxia to examine the relationship of
 CBF and oxygen delivery. In contrast to previous reports, our model
 showed adequate tissue levels of oxygen could be maintained without the
 need for increased CBF or oxygen delivery. Similarly, the PET studies
 demonstrated that the regional increase in CBF during visual activation
 was not affected by hypoxia. These findings strongly indicate that the
 increase in CBF associated with physiological activation is regulated
 by factors other than local requirements in oxygen.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Inflammatory responses in many cell types are coordinately
 regulated by the opposing actions of NF-κB and the glucocorticoid
 receptor (GR). The human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) gene encodes two
 protein isoforms: a cytoplasmic alpha form (GRα), which binds
 hormone, translocates to the nucleus, and regulates gene transcription,
 and a nuclear localized beta isoform (GRβ), which does not bind known
 ligands and attenuates GRα action. We report here the identification
 of a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-responsive NF-κB DNA binding site 5′
 to the hGR promoter that leads to a 1.5-fold increase in GRα mRNA and
 a 2.0-fold increase in GRβ mRNA in HeLaS3 cells, which
 endogenously express both GR isoforms. However, TNF-α
 treatment disproportionately increased the steady-state levels of the
 GRβ protein isoform over GRα, making GRβ the predominant
 endogenous receptor isoform. Similar results were observed
 following treatment of human CEMC7 lymphoid cells with TNF-α or IL-1.
 The increase in GRβ protein expression correlated with the
 development of glucocorticoid resistance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estrogen is critical for epiphyseal fusion in both young men and
 women. In this study, we explored the cellular mechanisms by which
 estrogen causes this phenomenon. Juvenile ovariectomized female rabbits
 received either 70 μg/kg estradiol cypionate or vehicle i.m. once a
 week. Growth plates from the proximal tibia, distal tibia, and distal
 femur were analyzed after 2, 4, 6, or 8 weeks of treatment. In
 vehicle-treated animals, there was a gradual senescent decline in
 tibial growth rate, rate of chondrocyte proliferation, growth plate
 height, number of proliferative chondrocytes, number of hypertrophic
 chondrocytes, size of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes, and column
 density. Estrogen treatment accelerated the senescent decline in all of
 these parameters. In senescent growth plates, epiphyseal fusion was
 observed to be an abrupt event in which all remaining chondrocytes were
 rapidly replaced by bone elements. Fusion occurred when the rate of
 chondrocyte proliferation approached zero. Estrogen caused this
 proliferative exhaustion and fusion to occur earlier. Our data suggest
 that (i) epiphyseal fusion is triggered when the
 proliferative potential of growth plate chondrocytes is exhausted; and
 (ii) estrogen does not induce growth plate ossification
 directly; instead, estrogen accelerates the programmed senescence of
 the growth plate, thus causing earlier proliferative exhaustion and
 consequently earlier fusion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The expression of virulence determinants in Staphylococcus
 aureus is controlled by global regulatory loci (e.g.,
 sarA and agr). The sar
 (Staphylococcus accessory regulator) locus is composed
 of three overlapping transcripts (sarA P1, P3, and P2,
 transcripts initiated from the P1, P3, and P2 promoters, respectively),
 all encoding the 124-aa SarA protein. The level of SarA, the major
 regulatory protein, is partially controlled by the differential
 activation of the sarA promoters. We previously
 partially purified a 13.6-kDa protein, designated SarR, that binds to
 the sarA promoter region to down-modulate
 sarA transcription from the P1 promoter and subsequently
 SarA expression. SarR shares sequence similarity to SarA, and another
 SarA homolog, SarS. Here we report the 2.3 Å-resolution x-ray crystal
 structure of the dimeric SarR-MBP (maltose binding protein) fusion
 protein. The structure reveals that the SarR protein not only has a
 classic helix–turn–helix module for DNA binding at the major grooves,
 but also has an additional loop region involved in DNA recognition at
 the minor grooves. This interaction mode could represent a new
 functional class of the “winged helix” family. The dimeric SarR
 structure could accommodate an unusually long stretch of ≈27
 nucleotides with two or four bending points along the course, which
 could lead to the bending of DNA by 90° or more, similar to that seen
 in the catabolite activator protein (CAP)–DNA complex. The structure
 also demonstrates the molecular basis for the stable dimerization of
 the SarR monomers and possible motifs for interaction with other
 proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genetic basis for virulence in influenza virus is largely
 unknown. To explore the mutational basis for increased virulence in the
 lung, the H3N2 prototype clinical isolate, A/HK/1/68, was adapted
 to the mouse. Genomic sequencing provided the first demonstration, to
 our knowledge, that a group of 11 mutations can convert an avirulent
 virus to a virulent variant that can kill at a minimal dose. Thirteen
 of the 14 amino acid substitutions (93%) detected among clonal
 isolates were likely instrumental in adaptation because of their
 positive selection, location in functional regions, and/or
 independent occurrence in other virulent influenza viruses. Mutations
 in virulent variants repeatedly involved nuclear localization signals
 and sites of protein and RNA interaction, implicating them as novel
 modulators of virulence. Mouse-adapted variants with the same
 hemagglutinin mutations possessed different pH optima of fusion,
 indicating that fusion activity of hemagglutinin can be modulated by
 other viral genes. Experimental adaptation resulted in the selection of
 three mutations that were in common with the virulent human H5N1
 isolate A/HK/156/97 and that may be instrumental in its extreme
 virulence. Analysis of viral adaptation by serial passage appears to
 provide the identification of biologically relevant mutations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We devised a noninvasive genetic selection strategy to
 identify positive regulators of bacterial virulence genes during actual
 infection of an intact animal host. This strategy combines random
 mutagenesis with a switch-like reporter of transcription that confers
 antibiotic resistance in the off state and sensitivity in the on state.
 Application of this technology to the human intestinal pathogen
 Vibrio cholerae identified several regulators of cholera
 toxin and a central virulence gene regulator that are operative during
 infection. These regulators function in chemotaxis, signaling pathways,
 transport across the cell envelope, biosynthesis, and adherence. We
 show that phenotypes that appear genetically independent in cell
 culture become interrelated in the host milieu.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RNA viruses evolve rapidly. One source of this ability to rapidly
 change is the apparently high mutation frequency in RNA virus
 populations. A high mutation frequency is a central tenet of the
 quasispecies theory. A corollary of the quasispecies theory postulates
 that, given their high mutation frequency, animal RNA viruses may be
 susceptible to error catastrophe, where they undergo a sharp drop in
 viability after a modest increase in mutation frequency. We recently
 showed that the important broad-spectrum antiviral drug ribavirin
 (currently used to treat hepatitis C virus infections, among others) is
 an RNA virus mutagen, and we proposed that ribavirin's antiviral
 effect is by forcing RNA viruses into error catastrophe. However, a
 direct demonstration of error catastrophe has not been made for
 ribavirin or any RNA virus mutagen. Here we describe a direct
 demonstration of error catastrophe by using ribavirin as the mutagen
 and poliovirus as a model RNA virus. We demonstrate that ribavirin's
 antiviral activity is exerted directly through lethal mutagenesis of
 the viral genetic material. A 99.3% loss in viral genome infectivity
 is observed after a single round of virus infection in ribavirin
 concentrations sufficient to cause a 9.7-fold increase in mutagenesis.
 Compiling data on both the mutation levels and the specific
 infectivities of poliovirus genomes produced in the presence of
 ribavirin, we have constructed a graph of error catastrophe showing
 that normal poliovirus indeed exists at the edge of viability. These
 data suggest that RNA virus mutagens may represent a promising new
 class of antiviral drugs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Type IV pili are thin filaments that extend from the poles of a
 diverse group of bacteria, enabling them to move at speeds of a few
 tenths of a micrometer per second. They are required for twitching
 motility, e.g., in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
 Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and for social gliding motility
 in Myxococcus xanthus. Here we report direct observation
 of extension and retraction of type IV pili in P.
 aeruginosa. Cells without flagellar filaments were labeled with
 an amino-specific Cy3 fluorescent dye and were visualized on a quartz
 slide by total internal reflection microscopy. When pili were attached
 to a cell and their distal ends were free, they extended or retracted
 at rates of about 0.5 μm s−1 (29°C). They also flexed
 by Brownian motion, exhibiting a persistence length of about 5 μm.
 Frequently, the distal tip of a filament adsorbed to the substratum and
 the filament was pulled taut. From the absence of lateral deflections
 of such filaments, we estimate tensions of at least 10 pN.
 Occasionally, cell bodies came free and were pulled forward by pilus
 retraction. Thus, type IV pili are linear actuators that extend, attach
 at their distal tips, exert substantial force, and retract.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is an inducible form of COX and is
 overexpressed in diverse tumors, raising the possibility of a role for
 COX-2 in carcinogenesis. In addition, COX-2 contributes to
 angiogenesis. The Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) oncoprotein, latent
 membrane protein 1 (LMP1), is detected in at least 70% of
 nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and all EBV-infected preinvasive
 nasopharyngeal lesions. We found that in specimens of LMP1-positive
 NPC, COX-2 is frequently expressed, whereas LMP1-negative NPC
 rarely express the enzyme. We next found that expression of LMP1 in
 EBV-negative nasopharyngeal epithelial cells induced COX-2 expression.
 Coexpression of IκBα(S32A/S36A), which is not phosphorylated and
 prevents NF-κB activation, with LMP1 showed that NF-κB is essential
 for induction of COX-2 by LMP1. We also demonstrate that NF-κB is
 involved in LMP1-induced cox-2 promoter activity with
 the use of reporter assays. Two major regions of LMP1, designated CTAR1
 and CTAR2, are signal-transducing domains of LMP1. Constructs
 expressing either CTAR1 or CTAR2 induce COX-2 but to a lesser extent
 than wild-type LMP1, consistent with the ability of both regions to
 activate NF-κB. Furthermore, we demonstrate that LMP1-induced COX-2
 is functional because LMP1 increased production of prostaglandin
 E2 in a COX-2-dependent manner. Finally, we demonstrate
 that LMP1 increased production of vascular endothelial growth factor
 (VEGF). Treatment of LMP1-expressing cells with the COX-2-specific
 inhibitor (NS-398) dramatically decreased production of VEGF,
 suggesting that LMP1-induced VEGF production is mediated, at least in
 part, by COX-2. These results suggest that COX-2 induction by LMP1 may
 play a role in angiogenesis in NPC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, an important opportunistic
 human pathogen, persists in certain tissues in the form of specialized
 bacterial communities, referred to as biofilm. The biofilm is formed
 through series of interactions between cells and adherence to surfaces,
 resulting in an organized structure. By screening a library of
 Tn5 insertions in a nonpiliated P.
 aeruginosa strain, we identified genes involved in early stages
 of biofilm formation. One class of mutations identified in this study
 mapped in a cluster of genes specifying the components of a
 chaperone/usher pathway that is involved in assembly of fimbrial
 subunits in other microorganisms. These genes, not previously described
 in P. aeruginosa, were named cupA1–A5.
 Additional chaperone/usher systems (CupB and CupC) have been
 also identified in the genome of P. aeruginosa PAO1;
 however, they do not appear to play a role in adhesion under the
 conditions where the CupA system is expressed and functions in surface
 adherence. The identification of these putative adhesins on the cell
 surface of P. aeruginosa suggests that this organism
 possess a wide range of factors that function in biofilm formation.
 These structures appear to be differentially regulated and may function
 at distinct stages of biofilm formation, or in specific environments
 colonized by this organism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Abnormalities of prefrontal cortical function are prominent
 features of schizophrenia and have been associated with genetic risk,
 suggesting that susceptibility genes for schizophrenia may impact on
 the molecular mechanisms of prefrontal function. A potential
 susceptibility mechanism involves regulation of prefrontal dopamine,
 which modulates the response of prefrontal neurons during working
 memory. We examined the relationship of a common functional
 polymorphism (Val108/158 Met) in the
 catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene, which accounts
 for a 4-fold variation in enzyme activity and dopamine catabolism, with
 both prefrontally mediated cognition and prefrontal cortical
 physiology. In 175 patients with schizophrenia, 219 unaffected
 siblings, and 55 controls, COMT genotype was related in allele dosage
 fashion to performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test of executive
 cognition and explained 4% of variance (P = 0.001)
 in frequency of perseverative errors. Consistent with other evidence
 that dopamine enhances prefrontal neuronal function, the load of the
 low-activity Met allele predicted enhanced cognitive performance. We
 then examined the effect of COMT genotype on prefrontal physiology
 during a working memory task in three separate subgroups
 (n = 11–16) assayed with functional MRI. Met
 allele load consistently predicted a more efficient physiological
 response in prefrontal cortex. Finally, in a family-based association
 analysis of 104 trios, we found a significant increase in transmission
 of the Val allele to the schizophrenic offspring. These data suggest
 that the COMT Val allele, because it increases prefrontal dopamine
 catabolism, impairs prefrontal cognition and physiology, and by this
 mechanism slightly increases risk for schizophrenia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The microtubule-associated protein τ is a family of six isoforms
 that becomes abnormally hyperphosphorylated and accumulates in the form
 of paired helical filaments (PHF) in the brains of patients with
 Alzheimer's disease (AD) and patients with several other tauopathies.
 Here, we show that the abnormally hyperphosphorylated τ from AD brain
 cytosol (AD P-τ) self-aggregates into PHF-like structures on
 incubation at pH 6.9 under reducing conditions at 35°C during 90 min.
 In vitro dephosphorylation, but not deglycosylation, of
 AD P-τ inhibits its self-association into PHF. Furthermore,
 hyperphosphorylation induces self-assembly of each of the six τ
 isoforms into tangles of PHF and straight filaments, and the
 microtubule binding domains/repeats region in the absence of the rest
 of the molecule can also self-assemble into PHF. Thus, it appears that
 τ self-assembles by association of the microtubule binding
 domains/repeats and that the abnormal hyperphosphorylation promotes
 the self-assembly of τ into tangles of PHF and straight filaments by
 neutralizing the inhibitory basic charges of the flanking regions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fine finger and hand movements in humans, monkeys, and rats are
 under the direct control of the corticospinal tract (CST). CST lesions
 lead to severe, long-term deficits of precision movements. We
 transected completely both CSTs in adult rats and treated the animals
 for 2 weeks with an antibody that neutralized the central nervous
 system neurite growth inhibitory protein Nogo-A (mAb IN-1). Anatomical
 studies of the rubrospinal tracts showed that the number of collaterals
 innervating the cervical spinal cord doubled in the mAb IN-1- but not
 in the control antibody-treated animals. Precision movements of the
 forelimb and fingers were severely impaired in the controls, but almost
 completely recovered in the mAb IN-1-treated rats. Low threshold
 microstimulation of the motor cortex induced a rapid forelimb
 electromyography response that was mediated by the red nucleus in the
 mAb IN-1 animals but not in the controls. These findings demonstrate an
 unexpectedly high capacity of the adult central nervous system motor
 system to sprout and reorganize in a targeted and functionally
 meaningful way.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To investigate the molecular basis of the voltage sensor that
 triggers excitation–contraction (EC) coupling, the four-domain pore
 subunit of the dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR) was cut in the
 cytoplasmic linker between domains II and III. cDNAs for the I-II
 domain (α1S 1–670) and the III-IV domain (α1S 701-1873) were
 expressed in dysgenic α1S-null myotubes. Coexpression of the two
 fragments resulted in complete recovery of DHPR intramembrane charge
 movement and voltage-evoked Ca2+ transients. When fragments
 were expressed separately, EC coupling was not recovered. However,
 charge movement was detected in the I-II domain expressed alone.
 Compared with I-II and III-IV together, the charge movement in the I-II
 domain accounted for about half of the total charge
 (Qmax = 3 ± 0.23 vs. 5.4 ±
 0.76 fC/pF, respectively), and the half-activation potential for
 charge movement was significantly more negative
 (V1/2 = 0.2 ± 3.5 vs. 22 ±
 3.4 mV, respectively). Thus, interactions between the four internal
 domains of the pore subunit in the assembled DHPR profoundly affect the
 voltage dependence of intramembrane charge movement. We also tested a
 two-domain I-II construct of the neuronal α1A Ca2+
 channel. The neuronal I-II domain recovered charge movements like those
 of the skeletal I-II domain but could not assist the skeletal III-IV
 domain in the recovery of EC coupling. The results demonstrate that a
 functional voltage sensor capable of triggering EC coupling in skeletal
 myotubes can be recovered by the expression of complementary fragments
 of the DHPR pore subunit. Furthermore, the intrinsic voltage-sensing
 properties of the α1A I-II domain suggest that this
 hemi-Ca2+ channel could be relevant to neuronal function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Volumetric studies in a range of animals (London taxi-drivers,
 polygynous male voles, nest-parasitic female cowbirds, and a number of
 food-storing birds) have shown that the size of the hippocampus, a
 brain region essential to learning and memory, is correlated with tasks
 involving an extra demand for spatial learning and memory. In this
 paper, we report the quantitative advantage that food storers gain from
 such an enlargement. Coal tits (Parus ater) a
 food-storing species, performed better than great tits (Parus
 major), a nonstoring species, on a task that assessed memory
 persistence but not on a task that assessed memory resolution or on one
 that tested memory capacity. These results show that the advantage to
 the food-storing species associated with an enlarged hippocampus is one
 of memory persistence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Paraneoplastic neurological disorders may result from autoimmunity
 directed against antigens shared by the affected neurons and the
 associated cancer cells. We have recently reported the case of a woman
 with breast cancer and paraneoplastic lower motor neuron syndrome whose
 serum contained autoantibodies directed against axon initial segments
 and nodes of Ranvier of myelinated axons, including the axons of
 motoneurons. Here, we show that major targets of the autoantibodies of
 this patient are βIVΣ1 spectrin and βIV spectrin 140, two
 isoforms of the novel βIV spectrin gene, as well as a neuronal
 surface epitope yet to be identified. Partial improvement of the
 neurological symptoms following cancer removal was associated with a
 drastic reduction in the titer of the autoantibodies against βIV
 spectrin and nodal antigens in general, consistent with the autoimmune
 pathogenesis of the paraneoplastic lower motor neuron syndrome. The
 identification of βIV spectrin isoforms and surface nodal antigens as
 novel autoimmune targets in lower motor neuron syndrome provide new
 insights into the pathogenesis of this severe neurological disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The capsaicin (vanilloid) receptor, VR1, is a sensory
 neuron-specific ion channel that serves as a polymodal detector of
 pain-producing chemical and physical stimuli. It has been proposed that
 ATP, released from different cell types, initiates the sensation of
 pain by acting predominantly on nociceptive ionotropic purinoceptors
 located on sensory nerve terminals. In this study, we examined the
 effects of extracellular ATP on VR1. In cells expressing VR1, ATP
 increased the currents evoked by capsaicin or protons through
 activation of metabotropic P2Y1 receptors in a protein
 kinase C-dependent pathway. The involvement of
 Gq/11-coupled metabotropic receptors in the potentiation of
 VR1 response was confirmed in cells expressing both VR1 and M1
 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. In the presence of ATP, the
 temperature threshold for VR1 activation was reduced from 42°C to
 35°C, such that normally nonpainful thermal stimuli (i.e., normal
 body temperature) were capable of activating VR1. This represents a
 novel mechanism through which the large amounts of ATP released from
 damaged cells in response to tissue trauma might trigger the sensation
 of pain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An emerging topic in plant biology is whether plants display
 analogous elements of mammalian programmed cell death during
 development and defense against pathogen attack. In many
 plant–pathogen interactions, plant cell death occurs in both
 susceptible and resistant host responses. For example, specific
 recognition responses in plants trigger formation of the hypersensitive
 response and activation of host defense mechanisms, resulting in
 restriction of pathogen growth and disease development. Several studies
 indicate that cell death during hypersensitive response involves
 activation of a plant-encoded pathway for cell death. Many susceptible
 interactions also result in host cell death, although it is not clear
 how or if the host participates in this response. We have generated
 transgenic tobacco plants to express animal genes that negatively
 regulate apoptosis. Plants expressing human Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl,
 nematode CED-9, or baculovirus Op-IAP transgenes conferred heritable
 resistance to several necrotrophic fungal pathogens, suggesting that
 disease development required host–cell death pathways. In addition,
 the transgenic tobacco plants displayed resistance to a necrogenic
 virus. Transgenic tobacco harboring Bcl-xl with a loss-of-function
 mutation did not protect against pathogen challenge. We also show that
 discrete DNA fragmentation (laddering) occurred in susceptible tobacco
 during fungal infection, but does not occur in transgenic-resistant
 plants. Our data indicate that in compatible plant–pathogen
 interactions apoptosis-like programmed cell death occurs.
 Further, these animal antiapoptotic genes function in plants
 and should be useful to delineate resistance pathways. These genes also
 have the potential to generate effective disease resistance in
 economically important crops.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe in this study punchless, a nonpathogenic
 mutant from the rice blast fungus M. grisea, obtained by
 plasmid-mediated insertional mutagenesis. As do most fungal plant
 pathogens, M. grisea differentiates an infection
 structure specialized for host penetration called the appressorium. We
 show that punchless differentiates appressoria that fail
 to breach either the leaf epidermis or artificial membranes such as
 cellophane. Cytological analysis of punchless
 appressoria shows that they have a cellular structure, turgor, and
 glycogen content similar to those of wild type before penetration, but
 that they are unable to differentiate penetration pegs. The inactivated
 gene, PLS1, encodes a putative integral membrane protein
 of 225 aa (Pls1p). A functional Pls1p-green fluorescent protein fusion
 protein was detected only in appressoria and was localized in plasma
 membranes and vacuoles. Pls1p is structurally related to the
 tetraspanin family. In animals, these proteins are components of
 membrane signaling complexes controlling cell differentiation,
 motility, and adhesion. We conclude that PLS1 controls
 an appressorial function essential for the penetration of the fungus
 into host leaves.
DOC DONE!Abstract
UV-A/blue light acts to regulate a number of physiological
 processes in higher plants. These include light-driven chloroplast
 movement and phototropism. The NPH1 gene of
 Arabidopsis encodes an autophosphorylating protein
 kinase that functions as a photoreceptor for phototropism in response
 to low-intensity blue light. However, nph1 mutants have
 been reported to exhibit normal phototropic curvature under
 high-intensity blue light, indicating the presence of an additional
 phototropic receptor. A likely candidate is the nph1 homologue, npl1,
 which has recently been shown to mediate the avoidance response of
 chloroplasts to high-intensity blue light in
 Arabidopsis. Here we demonstrate that npl1, like nph1,
 noncovalently binds the chromophore flavin mononucleotide (FMN) within
 two specialized PAS domains, termed LOV domains. Furthermore, when
 expressed in insect cells, npl1, like nph1, undergoes light-dependent
 autophosphorylation, indicating that npl1 also functions as a light
 receptor kinase. Consistent with this conclusion, we show that a
 nph1npl1 double mutant exhibits an impaired phototropic
 response under both low- and high-intensity blue light. Hence, npl1
 functions as a second phototropic receptor under high fluence rate
 conditions and is, in part, functionally redundant to nph1. We also
 demonstrate that both chloroplast accumulation in response to
 low-intensity light and chloroplast avoidance movement in response to
 high-intensity light are lacking in the nph1npl1 double
 mutant. Our findings therefore indicate that nph1 and npl1 show
 partially overlapping functions in two different responses,
 phototropism and chloroplast relocation, in a fluence rate-dependent
 manner.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most HIV replication occurs in solid lymphoid tissue, which has
 prominent architecture at the histological level, which separates
 groups of productively infected CD4+ cells. Nevertheless,
 current population models of HIV assume panmixis within lymphoid
 tissue. We present a simple “metapopulation” model of HIV
 replication, where the population of infected cells is comprised of a
 large number of small populations, each of which is established by a
 few founder viruses and undergoes turnover. To test this model, we
 analyzed viral genetic variation of infected cell subpopulations within
 the spleen and demonstrated the action of founder effects as well as
 significant variation in the extent of genetic differentiation between
 subpopulations among patients. The combination of founder effects and
 subpopulation turnover can result in an effective population size much
 lower than the actual population size and may contribute to the
 importance of genetic drift in HIV evolution despite a large number of
 infected cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intracellular transport and localization of cellular components are
 essential for the functional organization and plasticity of eukaryotic
 cells. Although the elucidation of protein transport mechanisms has
 made impressive progress in recent years, intracellular transport of
 RNA remains less well understood. The National Academy of Sciences
 Colloquium on Molecular Kinesis in Cellular Function and Plasticity
 therefore was devised as an interdisciplinary platform for participants
 to discuss intracellular molecular transport from a variety of
 different perspectives. Topics covered at the meeting included RNA
 metabolism and transport, mechanisms of protein synthesis and
 localization, the formation of complex interactive protein ensembles,
 and the relevance of such mechanisms for activity-dependent regulation
 and synaptic plasticity in neurons. It was the overall objective of the
 colloquium to generate momentum and cohesion for the emerging research
 field of molecular kinesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Kinesin molecular motor proteins are responsible for many of the major microtubule-dependent transport pathways in neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Elucidating the transport pathways mediated by kinesins, the identity of the cargoes moved, and the nature of the proteins that link kinesin motors to cargoes are areas of intense investigation. Kinesin-II recently was found to be required for transport in motile and nonmotile cilia and flagella where it is essential for proper left-right determination in mammalian development, sensory function in ciliated neurons, and opsin transport and viability in photoreceptors. Thus, these pathways and proteins may be prominent contributors to several human diseases including ciliary dyskinesias, situs inversus, and retinitis pigmentosa. Kinesin-I is needed to move many different types of cargoes in neuronal axons. Two candidates for receptor proteins that attach kinesin-I to vesicular cargoes were recently found. One candidate, sunday driver, is proposed to both link kinesin-I to an unknown vesicular cargo and to bind and organize the mitogen-activated protein kinase components of a c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling module. A second candidate, amyloid precursor protein, is proposed to link kinesin-I to a different, also unknown, class of axonal vesicles. The finding of a possible functional interaction between kinesin-I and amyloid precursor protein may implicate kinesin-I based transport in the development of Alzheimer's disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Intracellular transport is essential for morphogenesis and functioning of the cell. The kinesin superfamily proteins (KIFs) have been shown to transport membranous organelles and protein complexes in a microtubule- and ATP-dependent manner. More than 30 KIFs have been reported in mice. However, the nomenclature of KIFs has not been clearly established, resulting in various designations and redundant names for a single KIF. Here, we report the identification and classification of all KIFs in mouse and human genome transcripts. Previously unidentified murine KIFs were found by a PCR-based search. The identification of all KIFs was confirmed by a database search of the total human genome. As a result, there are a total of 45 KIFs. The nomenclature of all KIFs is presented. To understand the function of KIFs in intracellular transport in a single tissue, we focused on the brain. The expression of 38 KIFs was detected in brain tissue by Northern blotting or PCR using cDNA. The brain, mainly composed of highly differentiated and polarized cells such as neurons and glia, requires a highly complex intracellular transport system as indicated by the increased number of KIFs for their sophisticated functions. It is becoming increasingly clear that the cell uses a number of KIFs and tightly controls the direction, destination, and velocity of transportation of various important functional molecules, including mRNA. This report will set the foundation of KIF and intracellular transport research.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Salivary gland cells in the larvae of the dipteran Chironomus tentans offer unique possibilities to visualize the assembly and nucleocytoplasmic transport of a specific transcription product. Each nucleus harbors four giant polytene chromosomes, whose transcription sites are expanded, or puffed. On chromosome IV, there are two puffs of exceptional size, Balbiani ring (BR) 1 and BR 2. A BR gene is 35–40 kb, contains four short introns, and encodes a 1-MDa salivary polypeptide. The BR transcript is packed with proteins into a ribonucleoprotein (RNP) fibril that is folded into a compact ring-like structure. The completed RNP particle is released into the nucleoplasm and transported to the nuclear pore, where the RNP fibril is gradually unfolded and passes through the pore. On the cytoplasmic side, the exiting extended RNP fibril becomes engaged in protein synthesis and the ensuing polysome is anchored to the endoplasmic reticulum. Several of the BR particle proteins have been characterized, and their fate during the assembly and transport of the BR particle has been elucidated. The proteins studied are all added cotranscriptionally to the pre-mRNA molecule. The various proteins behave differently during RNA transport, and the flow pattern of each protein is related to the particular function of the protein. Because the cotranscriptional assembly of the pre-mRNP particle involves proteins functioning in the nucleus as well as proteins functioning in the cytoplasm, it is concluded that the fate of the mRNA molecule is determined to a considerable extent already at the gene level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Following transcription and splicing, each mRNA of a mammalian cell passes into the cytoplasm where its fate is in the hands of a complex network of ribonucleoproteins (mRNPs). The success or failure of a gene to be expressed depends on the performance of this mRNP infrastructure. The entry, gating, processing, and transit of each mRNA through an mRNP network helps determine the composition of a cell's proteome. The machinery that regulates storage, turnover, and translational activation of mRNAs is not well understood, in part, because of the heterogeneous nature of mRNPs. Recently, subsets of cellular mRNAs clustered as members of mRNP complexes have been identified by using antibodies reactive with RNA-binding proteins, including ELAV/Hu, eIF-4E, and poly(A)-binding proteins. Cytoplasmic ELAV/Hu proteins are involved in the stability and translation of early response gene (ERG) transcripts and are expressed predominately in neurons. mRNAs recovered from ELAV/Hu mRNP complexes were found to have similar sequence elements, suggesting a common structural linkage among them. This approach opens the possibility of identifying transcripts physically clustered in vivo that may have similar fates or functions. Moreover, the proteins encoded by physically organized mRNAs may participate in the same biological process or structural outcome, not unlike operons and their polycistronic mRNAs do in prokaryotic organisms. Our goal is to understand the organization and flow of genetic information on an integrative systems level by analyzing the collective properties of proteins and mRNAs associated with mRNPs in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Maternally encoded RNAs and proteins program the early development of all animals. A subset of the maternal transcripts is eliminated from the embryo before the midblastula transition. In certain cases, transcripts are protected from degradation in a subregion of the embryonic cytoplasm, thus resulting in transcript localization. Maternal factors are sufficient for both the degradation and protection components of transcript localization. Cis-acting elements in the RNAs convert transcripts progressively (i) from inherently stable to unstable and (ii) from uniformly degraded to locally protected. Similar mechanisms are likely to act later in development to restrict certain classes of transcripts to particular cell types within somatic cell lineages. Functions of transcript degradation and protection are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Translation initiation is a complex process in which initiator tRNA, 40S, and 60S ribosomal subunits are assembled by eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs) into an 80S ribosome at the initiation codon of mRNA. The cap-binding complex eIF4F and the factors eIF4A and eIF4B are required for binding of 43S complexes (comprising a 40S subunit, eIF2/GTP/Met-tRNAi and eIF3) to the 5′ end of capped mRNA but are not sufficient to promote ribosomal scanning to the initiation codon. eIF1A enhances the ability of eIF1 to dissociate aberrantly assembled complexes from mRNA, and these factors synergistically mediate 48S complex assembly at the initiation codon. Joining of 48S complexes to 60S subunits to form 80S ribosomes requires eIF5B, which has an essential ribosome-dependent GTPase activity and hydrolysis of eIF2-bound GTP induced by eIF5. Initiation on a few mRNAs is cap-independent and occurs instead by internal ribosomal entry. Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) and hepatitis C virus epitomize distinct mechanisms of internal ribosomal entry site (IRES)-mediated initiation. The eIF4A and eIF4G subunits of eIF4F bind immediately upstream of the EMCV initiation codon and promote binding of 43S complexes. EMCV initiation does not involve scanning and does not require eIF1, eIF1A, and the eIF4E subunit of eIF4F. Initiation on some EMCV-like IRESs requires additional noncanonical initiation factors, which alter IRES conformation and promote binding of eIF4A/4G. Initiation on the hepatitis C virus IRES is even simpler: 43S complexes containing only eIF2 and eIF3 bind directly to the initiation codon as a result of specific interaction of the IRES and the 40S subunit.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rapamycin potently inhibits downstream signaling from the target of rapamycin (TOR) proteins. These evolutionarily conserved protein kinases coordinate the balance between protein synthesis and protein degradation in response to nutrient quality and quantity. The TOR proteins regulate (i) the initiation and elongation phases of translation, (ii) ribosome biosynthesis, (iii) amino acid import, (iv) the transcription of numerous enzymes involved in multiple metabolic pathways, and (v) autophagy. Intriguingly, recent studies have also suggested that TOR signaling plays a critical role in brain development, learning, and memory formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
β-actin mRNA is localized near the leading edge in several cell types, where actin polymerization is actively promoting forward protrusion. The localization of the β-actin mRNA near the leading edge is facilitated by a short sequence in the 3′ untranslated region, the “zip code.” Localization of the mRNA at this region is important physiologically. Treatment of chicken embryo fibroblasts with antisense oligonucleotides complementary to the localization sequence (zip code) in the 3′ untranslated region leads to delocalization of β-actin mRNA, alteration of cell phenotype, and a decrease in cell motility. To determine the components of this process responsible for the change in cell behavior after β-actin mRNA delocalization, the Dynamic Image Analysis System was used to quantify movement of cells in the presence of sense and antisense oligonucleotides to the zip code. It was found that net path length and average speed of antisense-treated cells were significantly lower than in sense-treated cells. Total path length and the velocity of protrusion of antisense-treated cells were not affected compared with those of control cells. These results suggest that a decrease in persistence of direction of movement and not in velocity results from treatment of cells with zip code-directed antisense oligonucleotides. To test this, direct analysis of directionality was performed on antisense-treated cells and showed a decrease in directionality (net path/total path) and persistence of movement. Less directional movement of antisense-treated cells correlated with a unpolarized and discontinuous distribution of free barbed ends of actin filaments and of β-actin protein. These results indicate that delocalization of β-actin mRNA results in delocalization of nucleation sites and β-actin protein from the leading edge followed by loss of cell polarity and directional movement.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hippocampal neurons in culture develop morphological polarity in a sequential pattern; axons form before dendrites. Molecular differences, particularly those of membrane proteins, underlie the functional polarity of these domains, yet little is known about the temporal relationship between membrane protein polarization and morphological polarization. We took advantage of viral expression systems to determine when during development the polarization of membrane proteins arises. All markers were unpolarized in neurons before axonogenesis. In neurons with a morphologically distinguishable axon, even on the first day in culture, both axonal and dendritic proteins were polarized. The degree of polarization at these early stages was somewhat less than in mature cells and varied from cell to cell. The cellular mechanism responsible for the polarization of the dendritic marker protein transferrin receptor (TfR) in mature cells centers on directed transport to the dendritic domain. To examine the relationship between cell surface polarization and transport, we assessed the selectivity of transport by live cell imaging. TfR-green fluorescent protein-containing vesicles were already preferentially transported into dendrites at 2 days, the earliest time point we could measure. The selectivity of transport also varied somewhat among cells, and the amount of TfR-green fluorescent protein fluorescence on intracellular structures within the axon correlated with the amount of cell surface expression. This observation implies that selective microtubule-based transport is the primary mechanism that underlies the polarization of TfR on the cell surface. By 5 days in culture, the extent of polarization on the cell surface and the selectivity of transport reached mature levels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A specific set of molecules including glutamate receptors is targeted to the postsynaptic specialization of excitatory synapses in the brain, gathering in a structure known as the postsynaptic density (PSD). Synaptic targeting of glutamate receptors depends on interactions between the C-terminal tails of receptor subunits and specific PDZ domain-containing scaffold proteins in the PSD. These scaffold proteins assemble a specialized protein complex around each class of glutamate receptor that functions in signal transduction, cytoskeletal anchoring, and trafficking of the receptors. Among the glutamate receptor subtypes, the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor is relatively stably integrated in the PSD, whereas the α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor moves in and out of the postsynaptic membrane in highly dynamic fashion. The distinctive cell biological behaviors of N-methyl-d-aspartate and α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors can be explained by their differential interactions with cytoplasmic proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Long-lasting forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity involve molecular modifications that require gene expression. Here, we describe a cellular mechanism that mediates the targeting newly synthesized gene transcripts to individual synapses where they are locally translated. The features of this mechanism have been revealed through studies of the intracellular transport and synaptic targeting of the mRNA for a recently identified immediate early gene called activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein Arc. Arc is strongly induced by patterns of synaptic activity that also induce long-term potentiation, and Arc mRNA is then rapidly delivered into dendrites after episodes of neuronal activation. The newly synthesized Arc mRNA localizes selectively at synapses that recently have been activated, and the encoded protein is assembled into the synaptic junctional complex. The dynamics of trafficking of Arc mRNA reveal key features of the mechanism through which synaptic activity can both induce gene expression and target particular mRNA transcripts to the active synapses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Early metazoan development is programmed by maternal mRNAs inherited by the egg at the time of fertilization. These mRNAs are not translated en masse at any one time or at any one place, but instead their expression is regulated both temporally and spatially. Recent evidence has shown that one maternal mRNA, cyclin B1, is concentrated on mitotic spindles in the early Xenopus embryo, where its translation is controlled by CPEB (cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein), a sequence-specific RNA binding protein. Disruption of the spindle-associated translation of this mRNA results in a morphologically abnormal mitotic apparatus and inhibited cell division. Mammalian neurons, particularly in the synapto-dendritic compartment, also contain localized mRNAs such as that encoding α-CaMKII. Here, synaptic activation drives local translation, an event that is involved in synaptic plasticity and possibly long-term memory storage. Synaptic translation of α-CaMKII mRNA also appears to be controlled by CPEB, which is enriched in the postsynaptic density. Therefore, CPEB-controlled local translation may influence such seemingly disparate processes as the cell cycle and synaptic plasticity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
mRNA localization is a complex pathway. Besides mRNA sorting per se, this process includes aspects of regulated translation. It requires protein factors that interact with defined sequences (or sequence motifs) of the transcript, and the protein/RNA complexes are finally guided along the cytoskeleton to their ultimate destinations. The mRNA encoding the vasopressin (VP) precursor protein is localized to the nerve cell processes in vivo and in primary cultured nerve cells. Sorting of VP transcripts to dendrites is mediated by the last 395 nucleotides of the mRNA, the dendritic localizer sequence, and it depends on intact microtubules. In vitro interaction studies with cytosolic extracts demonstrated specific binding of a protein, enriched in nerve cell tissues, to the radiolabeled dendritic localizer sequence probe. Biochemical purification revealed that this protein is the multifunctional poly(A)-binding protein (PABP). It is well known for its ability to bind with high affinity to poly(A) tails of mRNAs, prerequisite for mRNA stabilization and stimulation of translational initiation, respectively. With lower affinities, PABP can also associate with non-poly(A) sequences. The physiological consequences of these PABP/RNA interactions are far from clear but may include functions such as translational silencing. Presumably, the translational state of mRNAs subject to dendritic sorting is influenced by external stimuli. PABP thus could be a component required to regulate local synthesis of the VP precursor and possibly of other proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The functioning of the neuronal dendrite results from a variety of biological processes including mRNA transport to and protein translation in the dendrite. The complexity of the mRNA population in dendrites suggests that specific biological processes are modulated through the regulation of dendritic biology. There are various classes of mRNAs in dendrites whose translation modulates the ability of the dendrite to receive and integrate presynaptic information. Among these mRNAs are those encoding selective transcription factors that function in the neuronal soma and ionotropic glutamate receptors that function on the neuronal membrane. Conclusive evidence that these mRNAs can be translated is reviewed, and identification of the endogenous sites of translation in living dendrites is presented. These data, as well as those described in the other articles resulting from this colloquium, highlight the complexity of dendritic molecular biology and the exquisitely selective and sensitive modulatory role played by the dendrite in facilitating intracellular and intercellular communication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Experimental evidence suggests that microfilaments and microtubules play contrasting roles in regulating the balance between motility and stability in neuronal structures. Actin-containing microfilaments are associated with structural plasticity, both during development when their dynamic activity drives the exploratory activity of growth cones and after circuit formation when the actin-rich dendritic spines of excitatory synapses retain a capacity for rapid changes in morphology. By contrast, microtubules predominate in axonal and dendritic processes, which appear to be morphologically relatively more stable. To compare the cytoplasmic distributions and dynamics of microfilaments and microtubules we made time-lapse recordings of actin or the microtubule-associated protein 2 tagged with green fluorescent protein in neurons growing in dispersed culture or in tissue slices from transgenic mice. The results complement existing evidence indicating that the high concentrations of actin present in dendritic spines is a specialization for morphological plasticity. By contrast, microtubule-associated protein 2 is limited to the shafts of dendrites where time-lapse recordings show little evidence for dynamic activity. A parallel exists between the partitioning of microfilaments and microtubules in motile and stable domains of growing processes during development and between dendrite shafts and spines at excitatory synapses in established neuronal circuits. These data thus suggest a mechanism, conserved through development and adulthood, in which the differential dynamics of actin and microtubules determine the plasticity of neuronal structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estrogens (E) and progestins regulate synaptogenesis in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus during the estrous cycle of the female rat, and the functional consequences include changes in neurotransmission and memory. Synapse formation has been demonstrated by using the Golgi technique, dye filling of cells, electron microscopy, and radioimmunocytochemistry. N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation is required, and inhibitory interneurons play a pivotal role as they express nuclear estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) and show E-induced decreases of GABAergic activity. Although global decreases in inhibitory tone may be important, a more local role for E in CA1 neurons seems likely. The rat hippocampus expresses both ERα and ERβ mRNA. At the light microscopic level, autoradiography shows cell nuclear [3H]estrogen and [125I]estrogen uptake according to a distribution that primarily reflects the localization of ERα-immunoreactive interneurons in the hippocampus. However, recent ultrastructural studies have revealed extranuclear ERα immunoreactivity (IR) within select dendritic spines on hippocampal principal cells, axon terminals, and glial processes, localizations that would not be detectable by using standard light microscopic methods. Based on recent studies showing that both types of ER are expressed in a form that activates second messenger systems, these findings support a testable model in which local, non-genomic regulation by estrogen participates along with genomic actions of estrogens in the regulation of synapse formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein synthesis occurs in neuronal dendrites, often near synapses. Polyribosomal aggregates often appear in dendritic spines, particularly during development. Polyribosomal aggregates in spines increase during experience-dependent synaptogenesis, e.g., in rats in a complex environment. Some protein synthesis appears to be regulated directly by synaptic activity. We use “synaptoneurosomes,” a preparation highly enriched in pinched-off, resealed presynaptic processes attached to resealed postsynaptic processes that retain normal functions of neurotransmitter release, receptor activation, and various postsynaptic responses including signaling pathways and protein synthesis. We have found that, when synaptoneurosomes are stimulated with glutamate or group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists such as dihydroxyphenylglycine, mRNA is rapidly taken up into polyribosomal aggregates, and labeled methionine is incorporated into protein. One of the proteins synthesized is FMRP, the protein that is reduced or absent in fragile X mental retardation syndrome. FMRP has three RNA-binding domains and reportedly binds to a significant number of mRNAs. We have found that dihydroxyphenylglycine-activated protein synthesis in synaptoneurosomes is dramatically reduced in a knockout mouse model of fragile X syndrome, which cannot produce full-length FMRP, suggesting that FMRP is involved in or required for this process. Studies of autopsy samples from patients with fragile X syndrome have indicated that dendritic spines may fail to assume a normal mature size and shape and that there are more spines per unit dendrite length in the patient samples. Similar findings on spine size and shape have come from studies of the knockout mouse. Study of the development of the somatosensory cortical region containing the barrel-like cell arrangements that process whisker information suggests that normal dendritic regression is impaired in the knockout mouse. This finding suggests that FMRP may be required for the normal processes of maturation and elimination to occur in cerebral cortical development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Deterministic chaos has been implicated in numerous natural and man-made complex phenomena ranging from quantum to astronomical scales and in disciplines as diverse as meteorology, physiology, ecology, and economics. However, the lack of a definitive test of chaos vs. random noise in experimental time series has led to considerable controversy in many fields. Here we propose a numerical titration procedure as a simple “litmus test” for highly sensitive, specific, and robust detection of chaos in short noisy data without the need for intensive surrogate data testing. We show that the controlled addition of white or colored noise to a signal with a preexisting noise floor results in a titration index that: (i) faithfully tracks the onset of deterministic chaos in all standard bifurcation routes to chaos; and (ii) gives a relative measure of chaos intensity. Such reliable detection and quantification of chaos under severe conditions of relatively low signal-to-noise ratio is of great interest, as it may open potential practical ways of identifying, forecasting, and controlling complex behaviors in a wide variety of physical, biomedical, and socioeconomic systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Materials with high electrical conductivity and optical transparency are needed for future flat panel display, solar energy, and other opto-electronic technologies. InxCd1-xO films having a simple cubic microstructure have been grown on amorphous glass substrates by a straightforward chemical vapor deposition process. The x = 0.05 film conductivity of 17,000 S/cm, carrier mobility of 70 cm2/Vs, and visible region optical transparency window considerably exceed the corresponding parameters for commercial indium-tin oxide. Ab initio electronic structure calculations reveal small conduction electron effective masses, a dramatic shift of the CdO band gap with doping, and a conduction band hybridization gap caused by extensive Cd 5s + In 5s mixing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Studies of molecular structures at or near their equilibrium configurations have long provided information on their geometry in terms of bond distances and angles. Far-from-equilibrium structures are relatively unknown—especially for complex systems—and generally, neither their dynamics nor their average geometries can be extrapolated from equilibrium values. For such nonequilibrium structures, vibrational amplitudes and bond distances play a central role in phenomena such as energy redistribution and chemical reactivity. Ultrafast electron diffraction, which was developed to study transient molecular structures, provides a direct method for probing the nature of complex molecules far from equilibrium. Here we present our ultrafast electron diffraction observations of transient structures for two cyclic hydrocarbons. At high internal energies of ≈4 eV, these molecules display markedly different behavior. For 1,3,5-cycloheptatriene, excitation results in the formation of hot ground-state structures with bond distances similar to those of the initial structure, but with nearly three times the average vibrational amplitude. Energy is redistributed within 5 ps, but with a negative temperature characterizing the nonequilibrium population. In contrast, the ring-opening reaction of 1,3-cyclohexadiene is shown to result in hot structures with a C—C bond distance of over 1.7 Å, which is 0.2 Å away from any expected equilibrium value. Even up to 400 ps, energy remains trapped in large-amplitude motions comprised of torsion and asymmetric stretching. These studies promise a new direction for studying structural dynamics in nonequilibrium complex systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aeolian dust (windblown silt and clay) is an important component in arid-land ecosystems because it may contribute to soil formation and furnish essential nutrients. Few geologic surfaces, however, have been characterized with respect to dust-accumulation history and resultant nutrient enrichment. We have developed a combination of methods to identify the presence of aeolian dust in arid regions and to evaluate the roles of this dust in ecosystem processes. Unconsolidated sandy sediment on isolated surfaces in the Canyonlands region of the Colorado Plateau differs greatly in mineralogical and chemical composition from associated bedrock, mainly aeolian sandstone. Detrital magnetite in the surficial deposits produces moderately high values of magnetic susceptibility, but magnetite is absent in nearby bedrock. A component of the surficial deposits must be aeolian to account for the abundance of magnetite, which formed originally in far-distant igneous rocks. Particle-size analysis suggests that the aeolian dust component is typically as much as 20–30%. Dust inputs have enriched the sediments in many elements, including P, Mg, Na, K, and Mo, as well as Ca, at sites where bedrock lacks calcite cement. Soil-surface biologic crusts are effective dust traps that apparently record a change in dust sources over the past several decades. Some of the recently fallen dust may result from human disturbance of land surfaces that are far from the Canyonlands, such as the Mojave Desert. Some land-use practices in the study area have the potential to deplete soil fertility by means of wind-erosion removal of aeolian silt.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epidemics of soil-borne plant disease are characterized by patchiness because of restricted dispersal of inoculum. The density of inoculum within disease patches depends on a sequence comprising local amplification during the parasitic phase followed by dispersal of inoculum by cultivation during the intercrop period. The mechanisms that control size, shape, and persistence have received very little rigorous attention in epidemiological theory. Here we derive a model for dispersal of inoculum in soil by cultivation that takes account into the discrete stochastic nature of the system in time and space. Two parameters, probability of movement and mean dispersal distance, characterize lateral dispersal of inoculum by cultivation. The dispersal parameters are used in combination with the characteristic area and dimensions of host plants to identify criteria that control the shape and size of disease patches. We derive a critical value for the probability of movement for the formation of cross-shaped patches and show that this is independent of the amount of inoculum. We examine the interaction between local amplification of inoculum by parasitic activity and subsequent dilution by dispersal and identify criteria whereby asymptomatic patches may persist as inoculum falls below a threshold necessary for symptoms to appear in the subsequent crop. The model is motivated by the spread of rhizomania, an economically important soil-borne disease of sugar beet. However, the results have broad applicability to a very wide range of diseases that survive as discrete units of inoculum. The application of the model to patch dynamics of weed seeds and local introductions of genetically modified seeds is also discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two sites located on the northern Levantine coast, Üçağızlı Cave (Turkey) and Ksar 'Akil (Lebanon) have yielded numerous marine shell beads in association with early Upper Paleolithic stone tools. Accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) radiocarbon dates indicate ages between 39,000 and 41,000 radiocarbon years (roughly 41,000–43,000 calendar years) for the oldest ornament-bearing levels in Üçağızlı Cave. Based on stratigraphic evidence, the earliest shell beads from Ksar 'Akil may be even older. These artifacts provide some of the earliest evidence for traditions of personal ornament manufacture by Upper Paleolithic humans in western Asia, comparable in age to similar objects from Eastern Europe and Africa. The new data show that the initial appearance of Upper Paleolithic ornament technologies was essentially simultaneous on three continents. The early appearance and proliferation of ornament technologies appears to have been contingent on variable demographic or social conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epidemics of soil-borne plant disease are characterized by patchiness because of restricted dispersal of inoculum. The density of inoculum within disease patches depends on a sequence comprising local amplification during the parasitic phase followed by dispersal of inoculum by cultivation during the intercrop period. The mechanisms that control size, shape, and persistence have received very little rigorous attention in epidemiological theory. Here we derive a model for dispersal of inoculum in soil by cultivation that takes account into the discrete stochastic nature of the system in time and space. Two parameters, probability of movement and mean dispersal distance, characterize lateral dispersal of inoculum by cultivation. The dispersal parameters are used in combination with the characteristic area and dimensions of host plants to identify criteria that control the shape and size of disease patches. We derive a critical value for the probability of movement for the formation of cross-shaped patches and show that this is independent of the amount of inoculum. We examine the interaction between local amplification of inoculum by parasitic activity and subsequent dilution by dispersal and identify criteria whereby asymptomatic patches may persist as inoculum falls below a threshold necessary for symptoms to appear in the subsequent crop. The model is motivated by the spread of rhizomania, an economically important soil-borne disease of sugar beet. However, the results have broad applicability to a very wide range of diseases that survive as discrete units of inoculum. The application of the model to patch dynamics of weed seeds and local introductions of genetically modified seeds is also discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In contrast to the F-type ATPases, which use a proton gradient to generate ATP, the V-type enzymes use ATP to actively transport protons into organelles and extracellular compartments. We describe here the structure of the H-subunit (also called Vma13p) of the yeast enzyme. This is the first structure of any component of a V-type ATPase. The H-subunit is not required for assembly but plays an essential regulatory role. Despite the lack of any apparent sequence homology the structure contains five motifs similar to the so-called HEAT or armadillo repeats seen in the importins. A groove, which is occupied in the importins by the peptide that targets proteins for import into the nucleus, is occupied here by the 10 amino-terminal residues of subunit H itself. The structural similarity suggests how subunit H may interact with the ATPase itself or with other proteins. A cleft between the amino- and carboxyl-terminal domains also suggests another possible site of interaction with other factors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection alters the expression of many cellular genes, including IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) [Zhu, H., Cong, J.-P., Mamtora, G., Gingeras, T. & Shenk, T. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95, 14470–14475]. By using high-density cDNA microarrays, we show that the HCMV-regulated gene expression profile in fibroblasts does not differ substantially from the response generated by IFN. Furthermore, we identified the specific viral component triggering this response as the envelope glycoprotein B (gB). Cells treated with gB, but not other herpesviral glycoproteins, exhibited the same transcriptional profile as HCMV-infected cells. Thus, the interaction of gB with its as yet unidentified cellular receptor is the principal mechanism by which HCMV alters cellular gene expression early during infection. These findings highlight a pioneering paradigm for the consequences of virus–receptor interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The tyrosine nitration of proteins has been observed in diverse inflammatory conditions and has been linked to the presence of reactive nitrogen species. From many in vitro experiments, it is apparent that tyrosine nitration may alter the function of proteins. A limited number of experiments under in vivo conditions also demonstrate that protein nitration is associated with altered cellular processes. To understand the association of protein nitration with the pathogenic mechanism of the disease, it is essential to identify specific protein targets of nitration with in vivo or intact tissue models. Using anti-nitrotyrosine antibodies, we demonstrated the accumulation of nitrotyrosine in a 52-kDa protein in rat kidney after lipopolysaccharide treatment. The 52-kDa protein was purified and identified with partial sequence as succinyl-CoA:3-oxoacid CoA-transferase (SCOT; EC 2.8.3.5). Western blot analysis revealed that the nitration of this mitochondrial enzyme increased in the kidneys and hearts of lipopolysaccharide-treated rats, whereas its catalytic activity decreased. These data suggest that tyrosine nitration may be a mechanism for the inhibition of SCOT activity in inflammatory conditions. SCOT is a key enzyme for ketone body utilization. Thus, tyrosine nitration of the enzyme with sepsis or inflammation may explain the altered metabolism of ketone bodies present in these disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Biological membranes contain an extraordinary diversity of lipids. Phospholipids function as major structural elements of cellular membranes, and analysis of changes in the highly heterogeneous mixtures of lipids found in eukaryotic cells is central to understanding the complex functions in which lipids participate. Phospholipase-catalyzed hydrolysis of phospholipids often follows cell surface receptor activation. Recently, we demonstrated that granule fusion is initiated by addition of exogenous, nonmammalian phospholipases to permeabilized mast cells. To pursue this finding, we use positive and negative mode Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FTICR-MS) to measure changes in the glycerophospholipid composition of total lipid extracts of intact and permeabilized RBL-2H3 (mucosal mast cell line) cells. The low energy of the electrospray ionization results in efficient production of molecular ions of phospholipids uncomplicated by further fragmentation, and changes were observed that eluded conventional detection methods. From these analyses we have spectrally resolved more than 130 glycerophospholipids and determined changes initiated by introduction of exogenous phospholipase C, phospholipase D, or phospholipase A2. These exogenous phospholipases have a preference for phosphatidylcholine with long polyunsaturated alkyl chains as substrates and, when added to permeabilized mast cells, produce multiple species of mono- and polyunsaturated diacylglycerols, phosphatidic acids, and lysophosphatidylcholines, respectively. The patterns of changes of these lipids provide an extraordinarily rich source of data for evaluating the effects of specific lipid species generated during cellular processes, such as exocytosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A key step in the regulation of networks that control gene expression is the sequence-specific binding of transcription factors to their DNA recognition sites. A more complete understanding of these DNA–protein interactions will permit a more comprehensive and quantitative mapping of the regulatory pathways within cells, as well as a deeper understanding of the potential functions of individual genes regulated by newly identified DNA-binding sites. Here we describe a DNA microarray-based method to characterize sequence-specific DNA recognition by zinc-finger proteins. A phage display library, prepared by randomizing critical amino acid residues in the second of three fingers of the mouse Zif268 domain, provided a rich source of zinc-finger proteins with variant DNA-binding specificities. Microarrays containing all possible 3-bp binding sites for the variable zinc fingers permitted the quantitation of the binding site preferences of the entire library, pools of zinc fingers corresponding to different rounds of selection from this library, as well as individual Zif268 variants that were isolated from the library by using specific DNA sequences. The results demonstrate the feasibility of using DNA microarrays for genome-wide identification of putative transcription factor-binding sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Members of hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) families harboring heterozygous germline mutations in the DNA mismatch repair genes hMSH2 or hMLH1 present with tumors generally two to three decades earlier than individuals with nonfamilial sporadic colon cancer. We searched for phenotypic features that might predispose heterozygous cells from HNPCC kindreds to malignant transformation. hMSH2+/− lymphoblastoid cell lines were found to be on average about 4-fold more tolerant than wild-type cells to killing by the methylating agent temozolomide, a phenotype that is invariably linked with impairment of the mismatch repair system. This finding was associated with an average 2-fold decrease of the steady-state level of hMSH2 protein in hMSH2+/− cell lines. In contrast, hMLH1+/− heterozygous cells were indistinguishable from normal controls in these assays. Thus, despite the fact that HNPCC families harboring mutations in hMSH2 or hMLH1 cannot be distinguished clinically, the early stages of the carcinogenic process in hMSH2 and hMLH1 mutation carriers may be different. Should hMSH2+/− colonocytes and lymphoblasts harbor a similar phenotype, the increased tolerance of the former to DNA-damaging agents present in the human colon may play a key role in the initiation of the carcinogenic process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Metal-catalyzed oxidation may result in structural damage to proteins and has been implicated in aging and disease, including neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The selective modification of specific amino acid residues with high metal ion affinity leads to subtle structural changes that are not easy to detect but may have dramatic consequences on physical and functional properties of the oxidized protein molecules. PrP contains a histidine-rich octarepeat domain that binds copper. Because copper-binding histidine residues are particularly prone to metal-catalyzed oxidation, we investigated the effect of this reaction on the recombinant prion protein SHaPrP(29–231). Using Cu2+/ascorbate, we oxidized SHaPrP(29–231) in vitro. Oxidation was demonstrated by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, which showed the appearance of protein species of higher mass, including increases in multiples of 16, characteristic of oxygen incorporation. Digestion studies using Lys C indicate that the 29–101 region, which includes the histidine-containing octarepeats, is particularly affected by oxidation. Oxidation was time- and copper concentration-dependent and was evident with copper concentrations as low as 1 μM. Concomitant with oxidation, SHaPrP(29–231) suffered aggregation and precipitation, which was nearly complete after 15 min, when the prion protein was incubated at 37°C with a 6-fold molar excess of Cu2+. These findings indicate that PrP, a copper-binding protein, may be particularly susceptible to metal-catalyzed oxidation and that oxidation triggers an extensive structural transition leading to aggregation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The tumor suppressors EXT1 and EXT2 are associated with hereditary multiple exostoses and encode bifunctional glycosyltransferases essential for chain polymerization of heparan sulfate (HS) and its analog, heparin (Hep). Three highly homologous EXT-like genes, EXTL1–EXTL3, have been cloned, and EXTL2 is an α1,4-GlcNAc transferase I, the key enzyme that initiates the HS/Hep synthesis. In the present study, truncated forms of EXTL1 and EXTL3, lacking the putative NH2-terminal transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains, were transiently expressed in COS-1 cells and found to harbor α-GlcNAc transferase activity. EXTL3 used not only N-acetylheparosan oligosaccharides that represent growing HS chains but also GlcAβ1–3Galβ1-O-C2H4NH-benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), a synthetic substrate for α-GlcNAc transferase I that determines and initiates HS/Hep synthesis. In contrast, EXTL1 used only the former acceptor. Neither EXTL1 nor EXTL3 showed any glucuronyltransferase activity as examined with N-acetylheparosan oligosaccharides. Heparitinase I digestion of each transferase-reaction product showed that GlcNAc had been transferred exclusively through an α1,4-configuration. Hence, EXTL3 most likely is involved in both chain initiation and elongation, whereas EXTL1 possibly is involved only in the chain elongation of HS and, maybe, Hep as well. Thus, their acceptor specificities of the five family members are overlapping but distinct from each other, except for EXT1 and EXT2 with the same specificity. It now has been clarified that all of the five cloned human EXT gene family proteins harbor glycosyltransferase activities, which probably contribute to the synthesis of HS and Hep.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Apert syndrome (AS) is characterized by craniosynostosis (premature fusion of cranial sutures) and severe syndactyly of the hands and feet. Two activating mutations, Ser-252 → Trp and Pro-253 → Arg, in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) account for nearly all known cases of AS. To elucidate the mechanism by which these substitutions cause AS, we determined the crystal structures of these two FGFR2 mutants in complex with fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) . These structures demonstrate that both mutations introduce additional interactions between FGFR2 and FGF2, thereby augmenting FGFR2–FGF2 affinity. Moreover, based on these structures and sequence alignment of the FGF family, we propose that the Pro-253 → Arg mutation will indiscriminately increase the affinity of FGFR2 toward any FGF. In contrast, the Ser-252 → Trp mutation will selectively enhance the affinity of FGFR2 toward a limited subset of FGFs. These predictions are consistent with previous biochemical data describing the effects of AS mutations on FGF binding. Alterations in FGFR2 ligand affinity and specificity may allow inappropriate autocrine or paracrine activation of FGFR2. Furthermore, the distinct gain-of-function interactions observed in each crystal structure provide a model to explain the phenotypic variability among AS patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) are allosteric inhibitors of the HIV type 1 (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase (RT). Yeast grown in the presence of many of these drugs exhibited dramatically increased association of the p66 and p51 subunits of the HIV-1 RT as reported by a yeast two-hybrid assay. The enhancement required drug binding by RT; introduction of a drug-resistance mutation into the p66 construct negated the enhancement effect. The drugs could also induce heterodimerization of dimerization defective mutants. Coimmunoprecipitation of RT subunits from yeast lysates confirmed the induction of heterodimer formation by the drugs. In vitro-binding studies indicate that NNRTIs can bind tightly to p66 but not p51 and then mediate subsequent heterodimerization. This study demonstrates an unexpected effect of NNRTIs on the assembly of RT subunits.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The herpes simplex virus type 1 origin of DNA replication, oriS, contains three copies of the recognition sequence for the viral initiator protein, origin binding protein (OBP), arranged in two palindromes. The central box I forms a short palindrome with box III and a long palindrome with box II. Single-stranded oriS adopts a conformation, oriS*, that is tightly bound by OBP. Here we demonstrate that OBP binds to a box III–box I hairpin with a 3′ single-stranded tail in oriS*. Mutations designed to destabilize the hairpin abolish the binding of OBP to oriS*. The same mutations also inhibit DNA replication. Second site complementary mutations restore binding of OBP to oriS* as well as the ability of mutated oriS to support DNA replication. OriS* is also an efficient activator of the hydrolysis of ATP by OBP. Sequence analyses show that a box III–box I palindrome is an evolutionarily conserved feature of origins of DNA replication from human, equine, bovine, and gallid alpha herpes viruses. We propose that oriS facilitates initiation of DNA synthesis in two steps and that OBP exhibits exquisite specificity for the different conformations oriS adopts at these stages. Our model suggests that distance-dependent cooperative binding of OBP to boxes I and II in duplex DNA is succeeded by specific recognition of a box III–box I hairpin in partially unwound DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Whereas several apoptosis-related proteins have been linked to the antiapoptotic effects of Akt serine–threonine kinase, the search continues to explain the Akt signaling role in promoting cell survival via antiapoptotic effects. Here, we demonstrate that Akt phosphorylates the androgen receptor (AR) at Ser-210 and Ser-790. A mutation at AR Ser-210 results in the reversal of Akt-mediated suppression of AR transactivation. Activation of the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase/Akt pathway results in the suppression of AR target genes, such as p21, and the decrease of androgen/AR-mediated apoptosis, which may involve the inhibition of interaction between AR and AR coregulators. Together, these findings provide a molecular basis for cross-talk between two signaling pathways at the level of Akt and AR–AR coregulators that may help us to better understand the roles of Akt in the androgen/AR-mediated apoptosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In eukaryotic cells, lysosomes represent a major site for macromolecule degradation. Hydrolysis products are eventually exported from this acidic organelle into the cytosol through specific transporters. Impairment of this process at either the hydrolysis or the efflux step is responsible of several lysosomal storage diseases. However, most lysosomal transporters, although biochemically characterized, remain unknown at the molecular level. In this study, we report the molecular and functional characterization of a lysosomal amino acid transporter (LYAAT-1), remotely related to a family of H+-coupled plasma membrane and synaptic vesicle amino acid transporters. LYAAT-1 is expressed in most rat tissues, with highest levels in the brain where it is present in neurons. Upon overexpression in COS-7 cells, the recombinant protein mediates the accumulation of neutral amino acids, such as γ-aminobutyric acid, l-alanine, and l-proline, through an H+/amino acid symport. Confocal microscopy on brain sections revealed that this transporter colocalizes with cathepsin D, an established lysosomal marker. LYAAT-1 thus appears as a lysosomal transporter that actively exports neutral amino acids from lysosomes by chemiosmotic coupling to the H+-ATPase of these organelles. Homology searching in eukaryotic genomes suggests that LYAAT-1 defines a subgroup of lysosomal transporters in the amino acid/auxin permease family.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An emerging and important site of action for nitric oxide (NO) within cells is the mitochondrial inner membrane, where NO binds to and inhibits members of the electron transport chain, complex III and cytochrome c oxidase. Although it is known that inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase by NO is competitive with O2, the mechanisms that underlie this phenomenon remain unclear, and the impact of both NO and O2 partitioning into biological membranes has not been considered. These properties are particularly interesting because physiological O2 tensions can vary widely, with NO having a greater inhibitory effect at low O2 tensions (<20 μM). In this study, we present evidence for a consumption of NO in mitochondrial membranes in the absence of substrate, in a nonsaturable process that is O2 dependent. This consumption modulates inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase by NO and is enhanced by the addition of exogenous membranes. From these data, it is evident that the partition of NO into mitochondrial membranes has a major impact on the ability of NO to control mitochondrial respiration. The implications of this conclusion are discussed in the context of mitochondrial lipid:protein ratios and the importance of NO as a regulator of respiration in pathophysiology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (XLHED) is a heritable disorder of the ED-1 gene disrupting the morphogenesis of ectodermal structures. The ED-1 gene product, ectodysplasin-A (EDA), is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family member and is synthesized as a membrane-anchored precursor protein with the TNF core motif located in the C-terminal domain. The stalk region of EDA contains the sequence -Arg-Val-Arg-Arg156-Asn-Lys-Arg159-, representing overlapping consensus cleavage sites (Arg-X-Lys/Arg-Arg↓) for the proprotein convertase furin. Missense mutations in four of the five basic residues within this sequence account for ≈20% of all known XLHED cases, with mutations occurring most frequently at Arg156, which is shared by the two consensus furin sites. These analyses suggest that cleavage at the furin site(s) in the stalk region is required for the EDA-mediated cell-to-cell signaling that regulates the morphogenesis of ectodermal appendages. Here we show that the 50-kDa EDA parent molecule is cleaved at -Arg156Asn-Lys-Arg159↓- to release the soluble C-terminal fragment containing the TNF core domain. This cleavage appears to be catalyzed by furin, as release of the TNF domain was blocked either by expression of the furin inhibitor α1-PDX or by expression of EDA in furin-deficient LoVo cells. These results demonstrate that mutation of a functional furin cleavage site in a developmental signaling molecule is a basis for human disease (XLHED) and raise the possibility that furin cleavage may regulate the ability of EDA to act as a juxtacrine or paracrine factor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The S41A mutant of riboflavin synthase from Escherichia coli catalyzes the formation of riboflavin from 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumazine at a very low rate. Quenching of presteady-state reaction mixtures with trifluoroacetic acid afforded a compound with an absorption maximum at 412 nm (pH 1.0) that can be converted to a mixture of riboflavin and 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumazine by treatment with wild-type riboflavin synthase. The compound was shown to qualify as a kinetically competent intermediate of the riboflavin synthase-catalyzed reaction. Multinuclear NMR spectroscopy, using various 13C- and 15N-labeled samples, revealed a pentacyclic structure arising by dimerization of 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumazine. Enzyme-catalyzed fragmentation of this compound under formation of riboflavin can occur easily by a sequence of two elimination reactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The γ-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla) domain of blood coagulation factors is responsible for Ca2+-dependent phospholipid membrane binding. Factor X-binding protein (X-bp), an anticoagulant protein from snake venom, specifically binds to the Gla domain of factor X. The crystal structure of X-bp in complex with the Gla domain peptide of factor X at 2.3-Å resolution showed that the anticoagulation is based on the fact that two patches of the Gla domain essential for membrane binding are buried in the complex formation. The Gla domain thus is expected to be a new target of anticoagulant drugs, and X-bp provides a basis for designing them. This structure also provides a membrane-bound model of factor X.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Deterministic chaos has been implicated in numerous natural and man-made complex phenomena ranging from quantum to astronomical scales and in disciplines as diverse as meteorology, physiology, ecology, and economics. However, the lack of a definitive test of chaos vs. random noise in experimental time series has led to considerable controversy in many fields. Here we propose a numerical titration procedure as a simple “litmus test” for highly sensitive, specific, and robust detection of chaos in short noisy data without the need for intensive surrogate data testing. We show that the controlled addition of white or colored noise to a signal with a preexisting noise floor results in a titration index that: (i) faithfully tracks the onset of deterministic chaos in all standard bifurcation routes to chaos; and (ii) gives a relative measure of chaos intensity. Such reliable detection and quantification of chaos under severe conditions of relatively low signal-to-noise ratio is of great interest, as it may open potential practical ways of identifying, forecasting, and controlling complex behaviors in a wide variety of physical, biomedical, and socioeconomic systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The energetics of a fusion pathway is considered, starting from the contact site where two apposed membranes each locally protrude (as “nipples”) toward each other. The equilibrium distance between the tips of the two nipples is determined by a balance of physical forces: repulsion caused by hydration and attraction generated by fusion proteins. The energy to create the initial stalk, caused by bending of cis monolayer leaflets, is much less when the stalk forms between nipples rather than parallel flat membranes. The stalk cannot, however, expand by bending deformations alone, because this would necessitate the creation of a hydrophobic void of prohibitively high energy. But small movements of the lipids out of the plane of their monolayers allow transformation of the stalk into a modified stalk. This intermediate, not previously considered, is a low-energy structure that can reconfigure into a fusion pore via an additional intermediate, the prepore. The lipids of this latter structure are oriented as in a fusion pore, but the bilayer is locally compressed. All membrane rearrangements occur in a discrete local region without creation of an extended hemifusion diaphragm. Importantly, all steps of the proposed pathway are energetically feasible.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) comprises two subunits, TAP1 and TAP2, each containing a hydrophobic membrane-spanning region (MSR) and a nucleotide binding domain (NBD). The TAP1/TAP2 complex is required for peptide translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. To understand the role of each structural unit of the TAP1/TAP2 complex, we generated two chimeras containing TAP1 MSR and TAP2 NBD (T1MT2C) or TAP2 MSR and TAP1 NBD (T2MT1C). We show that TAP1/T2MT1C, TAP2/T1MT2C, and T1MT2C/T2MT1C complexes bind peptide with an affinity comparable to wild-type complexes. By contrast, TAP1/T1MT2C and TAP2/T2MT1C complexes, although observed, are impaired for peptide binding. Thus, the MSRs of both TAP1 and TAP2 are required for binding peptide. However, neither NBD contains unique determinants required for peptide binding. The NBD-switched complexes, T1MT2C/T2MT1C, TAP1/T2MT1C, and TAP2/T1MT2C, all translocate peptides, but with progressively reduced efficiencies relative to the TAP1/TAP2 complex. These results indicate that both nucleotide binding sites are catalytically active and support an alternating catalytic sites model for the TAP transport cycle, similar to that proposed for P-glycoprotein. The enhanced translocation efficiency of TAP1/T2MT1C relative to TAP2/T1MT2C complexes correlates with enhanced binding of the TAP1 NBD-containing constructs to ATP-agarose beads. Preferential ATP interaction with TAP1, if occurring in vivo, might polarize the transport cycle such that ATP binding to TAP1 initiates the cycle. However, our observations that TAP complexes containing two identical TAP NBDs can mediate translocation indicate that distinct properties of the nucleotide binding site per se are not essential for the TAP catalytic cycle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gene transfer to eukaryotic cells requires the uptake of exogenous DNA into the cell nucleus. Except during mitosis, molecular access to the nuclear interior is limited to passage through the nuclear pores. Here we demonstrate the nuclear uptake of extended linear DNA molecules by a combination of fluorescence microscopy and single-molecule manipulation techniques, using the latter to follow uptake kinetics of individual molecules in real time. The assays were carried out on nuclei reconstituted in vitro from extracts of Xenopus eggs, which provide both a complete complement of biochemical factors involved in nuclear protein import, and unobstructed access to the nuclear pores. We find that uptake of DNA is independent of ATP or GTP hydrolysis, but is blocked by wheat germ agglutinin. The kinetics are much slower than would be expected from hydrodynamic considerations. A fit of the data to a simple model suggests femto-Newton forces and a large friction relevant to the uptake process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
I describe physiologically plausible “voter-coincidence” neural networks such that secondary “coincidence” neurons fire on the simultaneous receipt of sufficiently large sets of input pulses from primary sets of neurons. The networks operate such that the firing rate of the secondary, output neurons increases (or decreases) sharply when the mean firing rate of primary neurons increases (or decreases) to a much smaller degree. In certain sensory systems, signals that are generally smaller than the noise levels of individual primary detectors, are manifest in very small increases in the firing rates of sets of afferent neurons. For such systems, this kind of network can act to generate relatively large changes in the firing rate of secondary “coincidence” neurons. These differential amplification systems can be cascaded to generate sharp, “yes–no” spike signals that can direct behavioral responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The equilibrium dissociation of recombinant human IFN-γ was monitored as a function of pressure and sucrose concentration. The partial molar volume change for dissociation was −209 ± 13 ml/mol of dimer. The specific molar surface area change for dissociation was 12.7 ± 1.6 nm2/molecule of dimer. The first-order aggregation rate of recombinant human IFN-γ in 0.45 M guanidine hydrochloride was studied as a function of sucrose concentration and pressure. Aggregation proceeded through a transition-state species, N*. Sucrose reduced aggregation rate by shifting the equilibrium between native state (N) and N* toward the more compact N. Pressure increased aggregation rate through increased solvation of the protein, which exposes more surface area, thus shifting the equilibrium away from N toward N*. The changes in partial molar volume and specific molar surface area between the N* and N were −41 ± 9 ml/mol of dimer and 3.5 ± 0.2 nm2/molecule, respectively. Thus, the structural change required for the formation of the transition state for aggregation is small relative to the difference between N and the dissociated state. Changes in waters of hydration were estimated from both specific molar surface area and partial molar volume data. From partial molar volume data, estimates were 25 and 128 mol H2O/mol dimer for formation of the aggregation transition state and for dissociation, respectively. From surface area data, estimates were 27 and 98 mol H2O/mol dimer. Osmotic stress theory yielded values ≈4-fold larger for both transitions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transition between B- and A-DNA was first observed nearly 50 years ago. We have now mapped this transformation through a set of single-crystal structures of the sequence d(GGCGCC)2, with various intermediates being trapped by methylating or brominating the cytosine bases. The resulting pathway progresses through 13 conformational steps, with a composite structure that pairs A-nucleotides with complementary B-nucleotides serving as a distinct transition intermediate. The details of each step in the conversion of B- to A-DNA are thus revealed at the atomic level, placing intermediates for this and other sequences in the context of a common pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Afipia felis is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes some cases of human Cat Scratch Disease. A. felis can survive and multiply in several mammalian cell types, including macrophages, but the precise intracellular compartmentalization of A. felis-containing phagosomes is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that, in murine macrophages, most A. felis-containing phagosomes exclude lysosomal tracer loaded into macrophage lysosomes before, as well as endocytic tracer loaded after, establishment of an infection. Established Afipia-containing phagosomes possess neither early endosomal marker proteins [early endosome antigen 1 (EEA1), Rab5, transferrin receptor, trytophane aspartate containing coat protein (TACO)] nor late endosomal or lysosomal proteins [cathepsin D, β-glucuronidase, vacuolar proton-pumping ATPase, rab7, mannose-6-phosphate receptor, vesicle-associated membrane protein 8, lysosome-associated membrane proteins LAMP-1 and LAMP-2]. Those bacteria that will be found in a nonendosomal compartment enter the macrophage via an EEA1-negative compartment, which remains negative for LAMP-1. The smaller subpopulation of afipiae whose phagosomes will be part of the endocytic system enters into an EEA1-positive compartment, which also subsequently acquires LAMP-1. Killing of Afipia or opsonization with immune antibodies leads to a strong increase in the percentage of A. felis-containing phagosomes that interact with the endocytic system. We conclude that most phagosomes containing A. felis are disconnected from the endosome–lysosome continuum, that their unusual compartmentalization is decided at uptake, and that this compartmentalization requires bacterial viability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have recently demonstrated that thrombin induces expression of the platelet-derived growth factor B-chain gene in endothelial cells (EC) through activation of the Y-box binding protein DNA-binding protein B (dbpB). We now present evidence that dbpB is activated by a novel mechanism: proteolytic cleavage leading to release from mRNA, nuclear translocation, and induction of thrombin-responsive genes. Cytosolic, full-length dbpB (50 kDa) was rapidly cleaved to a 30-kDa species upon thrombin stimulation of EC. This truncated, “active” dbpB exhibited nuclear localization and binding affinity for the thrombin response element sequence, which is distinct from the Y-box sequence. Oligo(dT) affinity chromatography revealed that cytosolic dbpB from control EC, but not active dbpB from thrombin-treated EC, was bound to mRNA. Latent dbpB immunoprecipitated from cytosolic extracts of control EC was activated by ribonuclease treatment. Furthermore, when EC cytosolic extracts were subjected to Nycodenz gradient centrifugation, latent dbpB fractionated with mRNA, whereas active dbpB fractionated with free proteins. The cytosolic retention domain of dbpB, which we localized to the region 247–267, was proteolytically cleaved during its activation. In contrast to full-length dbpB, truncated dbpB stimulated platelet-derived growth factor B-chain and tissue factor promoter activity by over 5-fold when transiently cotransfected with reporter constructs. These results suggest a novel mode of transcription factor activation in which an agonist causes release from mRNA of a latent transcription factor leading to its transport to the nucleus and its regulation of target gene expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The target of rapamycin (Tor) proteins sense nutrients and control transcription and translation relevant to cell growth. Treating cells with the immunosuppressant rapamycin leads to the intracellular formation of an Fpr1p-rapamycin-Tor ternary complex that in turn leads to translational down-regulation. A more rapid effect is a rich transcriptional response resembling that when cells are shifted from high- to low-quality carbon or nitrogen sources. This transcriptional response is partly mediated by the nutrient-sensitive transcription factors GLN3 and NIL1 (also named GAT1). Here, we show that these GATA-type transcription factors control transcriptional responses that mediate translation by several means. Four observations highlight upstream roles of GATA-type transcription factors in translation. In their absence, processes caused by rapamycin or poor nutrients are diminished: translation repression, eIF4G protein loss, transcriptional down-regulation of proteins involved in translation, and RNA polymerase I/III activity repression. The Tor proteins preferentially use Gln3p or Nil1p to down-regulate translation in response to low-quality nitrogen or carbon, respectively. Functional consideration of the genes regulated by Gln3p or Nil1p reveals the logic of this differential regulation. Besides integrating control of transcription and translation, these transcription factors constitute branches downstream of the multichannel Tor proteins that can be selectively modulated in response to distinct (carbon- and nitrogen-based) nutrient signals from the environment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
When multivalent ligands attach to IgEs bound to the receptors with high affinity for IgE on mast cells, the receptors aggregate, tyrosines on the receptors become phosphorylated, and a variety of cellular responses are stimulated. Prior studies, confirmed here, demonstrated that the efficiency with which later events are generated from earlier ones is inversely related to the dissociation rate of the aggregating ligand. This finding suggests that the cellular responses are constrained by a “kinetic proofreading” regimen. We have now observed an apparent exception to this rule. Doses of the rapidly or slowly dissociating ligands that generated equivalent levels of tyrosine-phosphorylated receptors comparably stimulated a putatively distal event: transcription of the gene for monocyte chemoattractant protein 1. Possible explanations of this apparent anomaly were explored.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the context of cell signaling, kinetic proofreading was introduced to explain how cells can discriminate among ligands based on a kinetic parameter, the ligand-receptor dissociation rate constant. In the kinetic proofreading model of cell signaling, responses occur only when a bound receptor undergoes a complete series of modifications. If the ligand dissociates prematurely, the receptor returns to its basal state and signaling is frustrated. We extend the model to deal with systems where aggregation of receptors is essential to signal transduction, and present a version of the model for systems where signaling depends on an extrinsic kinase. We also investigate the kinetics of signaling molecules, “messengers,” that are generated by aggregated receptors but do not remain associated with the receptor complex. We show that the extended model predicts modes of signaling that exhibit kinetic discrimination for some range of parameters but for other parameter values show little or no discrimination and thus escape kinetic proofreading. We compare model predictions with experimental data.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Until recently, a capacity for apoptosis and
 synthesis of nitric oxide (⋅NO) were viewed as exclusive to
 multicellular organisms. The existence of these processes in
 unicellular parasites was recently described, with their biological
 significance remaining to be elucidated. We have evaluated
 l-arginine metabolism in Trypanosoma cruzi
 in the context of human serum-induced apoptotic death.
 Apoptosis was evidenced by the induction of DNA fragmentation
 and the inhibition of [3H]thymidine incorporation, which
 were inhibited by the caspase inhibitor Ac-Asp-Glu-Val-aspartic acid
 aldehyde (DEVD-CHO). In T. cruzi exposed to death
 stimuli, supplementation with l-arginine inhibited DNA
 fragmentation, restored [3H]thymidine incorporation, and
 augmented parasite ⋅NO production. These effects were inhibited
 by the ⋅NO synthase inhibitor
 Nω-nitroarginine methyl ester
 (l-NAME). Exogenous ⋅NO limited DNA fragmentation
 but did not restore proliferation rates. Because l-arginine
 is also a substrate for arginine decarboxylase (ADC), and its product
 agmatine is a precursor for polyamine synthesis, we evaluated the
 contribution of polyamines to limiting apoptosis. Addition of
 agmatine, putrescine, and the polyamines spermine and spermidine to
 T. cruzi sustained parasite proliferation and inhibited
 DNA fragmentation. Also, the ADC inhibitor difluoromethylarginine
 inhibited l-arginine-dependent restoration of parasite
 replication rates, while the protection from DNA fragmentation
 persisted. In aggregate, these results indicate that T.
 cruzi epimastigotes can undergo programmed cell death that can
 be inhibited by l-arginine by means of (i) a
 ⋅NO synthase-dependent ⋅NO production that suppresses
 apoptosis and (ii) an ADC-dependent production
 of polyamines that support parasite proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ability of the cornea to transmit light while being mechanically resilient is directly attributable to the formation of an extracellular matrix containing orthogonal sheets of collagen fibrils. The detailed structure of the fibrils and how this structure underpins the mechanical properties and organization of the cornea is understood poorly. In this study, we used automated electron tomography to study the three-dimensional organization of molecules in corneal collagen fibrils. The reconstructions show that the collagen molecules in the 36-nm diameter collagen fibrils are organized into microfibrils (≈4-nm diameter) that are tilted by ≈15° to the fibril long axis in a right-handed helix. An unexpected finding was that the microfibrils exhibit a constant-tilt angle independent of radial position within the fibril. This feature suggests that microfibrils in concentric layers are not always parallel to each other and cannot retain the same neighbors between layers. Analysis of the lateral structure shows that the microfibrils exhibit regions of order and disorder within the 67-nm axial repeat of collagen fibrils. Furthermore, the microfibrils are ordered at three specific regions of the axial repeat of collagen fibrils that correspond to the N- and C-telopeptides and the d-band of the gap zone. The reconstructions also show macromolecules binding to the fibril surface at sites that correspond precisely to where the microfibrils are most orderly.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the cell at high temperature may cause entry into a nonproliferating, heat-shocked state. The imino acid analog azetidine 2-carboxylic acid (AZC) is incorporated into cellular protein competitively with proline and can misfold proteins into which it is incorporated. AZC addition to budding yeast cells at concentrations sufficient to inhibit proliferation selectively activates heat shock factor (HSF). We find that AZC treatment fails to cause accumulation of glycogen and trehalose (Msn2/4-dependent processes) or to induce thermotolerance (a protein kinase C-dependent process). However, AZC-arrested cells can accumulate glycogen and trehalose and can acquire thermotolerance in response to a subsequent heat shock. We find that AZC treatment arrests cells in a viable state and that this arrest is reversible. We find that cells at high temperature or cells deficient in the ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes Ubc4 and Ubc5 are hypersensitive to AZC-induced proliferation arrest. We find that AZC treatment mimics temperature up-shift in arresting cells in G1 and represses expression of CLN1 and CLN2. Mutants with reduced G1 cyclin-Cdc28 activity are hypersensitive to AZC-induced proliferation arrest. Expression of the hyperstable Cln3–2 protein prevents G1 arrest upon AZC treatment and temperature up-shift. Finally, we find that the EXA3–1 mutation, encoding a defective HSF, prevents efficient G1 arrest in response to both temperature up-shift and AZC treatment. We conclude that nontoxic levels of misfolded proteins (induced by AZC treatment or by high temperature) selectively activate HSF, which is required for subsequent G1 arrest.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins perform key roles in mediating signaling by cytokines and growth factors, including platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). In addition, Src family kinases activate STAT signaling and are required for PDGF-induced mitogenesis in normal cells. One STAT family member, Stat3, has been shown to have an essential role in cell transformation by the Src oncoprotein. However, the mechanisms by which STAT-signaling pathways contribute to mitogenesis and transformation are not fully defined. We show here that disruption of Stat3 signaling by using dominant-negative Stat3β protein in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts suppresses c-Myc expression concomitant with inhibition of v-Src-induced transformation. Ectopic expression of c-Myc is able to partially reverse this inhibition, suggesting that c-Myc is a downstream effector of Stat3 signaling in v-Src transformation. Furthermore, c-myc gene knockout fibroblasts are refractory to transformation by v-Src, consistent with a requirement for c-Myc protein in v-Src transformation. In normal NIH 3T3 cells, disruption of Stat3 signaling with dominant-negative Stat3β protein inhibits PDGF-induced mitogenesis in a manner that is reversed by ectopic c-Myc expression. Moreover, inhibition of Src family kinases with the pharmacologic agent, SU6656, blocks Stat3 activation by PDGF. These findings, combined together, delineate the signaling pathway, PDGF → Src → Stat3 → Myc, that is important in normal PDGF-induced mitogenesis and subverted in Src transformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Exit from mitosis in budding yeast requires inactivation of cyclin-dependent kinases through mechanisms triggered by the protein phosphatase Cdc14. Cdc14 activity, in turn, is regulated by a group of proteins, the mitotic exit network (MEN), which includes Lte1, Tem1, Cdc5, Cdc15, Dbf2/Dbf20, and Mob1. The direct biochemical interactions between the components of the MEN remain largely unresolved. Here, we investigate the mechanisms that underlie activation of the protein kinase Dbf2. Dbf2 kinase activity depended on Tem1, Cdc15, and Mob1 in vivo. In vitro, recombinant protein kinase Cdc15 activated recombinant Dbf2, but only when Dbf2 was bound to Mob1. Conserved phosphorylation sites Ser-374 and Thr-544 (present in the human, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Drosophila melanogaster relatives of Dbf2) were required for DBF2 function in vivo, and activation of Dbf2-Mob1 by Cdc15 in vitro. Although Cdc15 phosphorylated Dbf2, Dbf2–Mob1, and Dbf2(S374A/T544A)–Mob1, the pattern of phosphate incorporation into Dbf2 was substantially altered by either the S374A T544A mutations or omission of Mob1. Thus, Cdc15 promotes the exit from mitosis by directly switching on the kinase activity of Dbf2. We propose that Mob1 promotes this activation process by enabling Cdc15 to phosphorylate the critical Ser-374 and Thr-544 phosphoacceptor sites of Dbf2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Continuous exposure to oxygen is essential for nearly all vertebrates. We found that embryos of the zebrafish Danio rerio can survive for 24 h in the absence of oxygen (anoxia, 0% O2). In anoxia, zebrafish entered a state of suspended animation where all microscopically observable movement ceased, including cell division, developmental progression, and motility. Animals that had developed a heartbeat before anoxic exposure showed no evidence of a heartbeat until return to terrestrial atmosphere (normoxia, 20.8% O2). In analyzing cell-cycle changes of rapidly dividing blastomeres exposed to anoxia, we found that no cells arrested in mitosis. This is in sharp contrast to similarly staged normoxic embryos that consistently contain more than 15% of cells in mitosis. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that blastomeres arrested during the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle. This work indicates that survival of oxygen deprivation in vertebrates involves the reduction of diverse processes, such as cardiac function and cell-cycle progression, thus allowing energy supply to be matched by energy demands.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Msx1 is a key factor for the development of tooth and craniofacial skeleton and has been proposed to play a pivotal role in terminal cell differentiation. In this paper, we demonstrated the presence of an endogenous Msx1 antisense RNA (Msx1-AS RNA) in mice, rats, and humans. In situ analysis revealed that this RNA is expressed only in differentiated dental and bone cells with an inverse correlation with Msx1 protein. These in vivo data and overexpression of Msx1 sense and AS RNA in an odontoblastic cell line (MO6-G3) showed that the balance between the levels of the two Msx1 RNAs is related to the expression of Msx1 protein. To analyze the impact of this balance in the Msx-Dlx homeoprotein pathway, we analyzed the effect of Msx1, Msx2, and Dlx5 overexpression on proteins involved in skeletal differentiation. We showed that the Msx1-AS RNA is involved in crosstalk between the Msx-Dlx pathways because its expression was abolished by Dlx5. Msx1 was shown to down-regulate a master gene of skeletal cells differentiation, Cbfa1. All these data strongly suggest that the ratio between Msx1 sense and antisense RNAs is a very important factor in the control of skeletal terminal differentiation. Finally, the initiation site for Msx1-AS RNA transcription was located by primer extension in both mouse and human in an identical region, including a consensus TATA box, suggesting an evolutionary conservation of the AS RNA-mediated regulation of Msx1 gene expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Friend of GATA (FOG) proteins regulate GATA factor-activated gene transcription. During vertebrate hematopoiesis, FOG and GATA proteins cooperate to promote erythrocyte and megakaryocyte differentiation. The Drosophila FOG homologue U-shaped (Ush) is expressed similarly in the blood cell anlage during embryogenesis. During hematopoiesis, the acute myeloid leukemia 1 homologue Lozenge and Glial cells missing are required for the production of crystal cells and plasmatocytes, respectively. However, additional factors have been predicted to control crystal cell proliferation. In this report, we show that Ush is expressed in hemocyte precursors and plasmatocytes throughout embryogenesis and larval development, and the GATA factor Serpent is essential for Ush embryonic expression. Furthermore, loss of ush function results in an overproduction of crystal cells, whereas forced expression of Ush reduces this cell population. Murine FOG-1 and FOG-2 also can repress crystal cell production, but a mutant version of FOG-2 lacking a conserved motif that binds the corepressor C-terminal binding protein fails to affect the cell lineage. The GATA factor Pannier (Pnr) is required for eye and heart development in Drosophila. When Ush, FOG-1, FOG-2, or mutant FOG-2 is coexpressed with Pnr during these developmental processes, severe eye and heart phenotypes result, consistent with a conserved negative regulation of Pnr function. These results indicate that the fly and mouse FOG proteins function similarly in three distinct cellular contexts in Drosophila, but may use different mechanisms to regulate genetic events in blood vs. cardial or eye cell lineages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two important features of amphibian metamorphosis are the sequential response of tissues to different concentrations of thyroid hormone (TH) and the development of the negative feedback loop between the pituitary and the thyroid gland that regulates TH synthesis by the thyroid gland. At the climax of metamorphosis in Xenopus laevis (when the TH level is highest), the ratio of the circulating precursor thyroxine (T4) to the active form 3,5,3′-triiodothyronine (T3) in the blood is many times higher than it is in tissues. This difference is because of the conversion of T4 to T3 in target cells of the tadpole catalyzed by the enzyme type II iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) and the local effect (cell autonomy) of this activity. Limb buds and tails express D2 early and late in metamorphosis, respectively, correlating with the time that these organs undergo TH-induced change. T3 is required to complete metamorphosis because the peak concentration of T4 that is reached at metamorphic climax cannot induce the final morphological changes. At the climax of metamorphosis, D2 expression is activated specifically in the anterior pituitary cells that express the genes for thyroid-stimulating hormone but not in the cells that express proopiomelanocortin. Physiological concentrations of T3 but not T4 can suppress thyrotropin subunit β gene expression. The timing and the remarkable specificity of D2 expression in the thyrotrophs of the anterior pituitary coupled with the requirement for locally synthesized T3 strongly support a role for D2 in the onset of the negative feedback loop at the climax of metamorphosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of muscle-specific genes by members of the myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) and MyoD families of transcription factors is coupled to histone acetylation and is inhibited by class II histone deacetylases (HDACs) 4 and 5, which interact with MEF2. The ability of HDAC4 and -5 to inhibit MEF2 is blocked by phosphorylation of these HDACs at two conserved serine residues, which creates docking sites for the intracellular chaperone protein 14-3-3. When bound to 14-3-3, HDACs are released from MEF2 and transported to the cytoplasm, thereby allowing MEF2 to stimulate muscle-specific gene expression. MEF2-interacting transcription repressor (MITR) shares homology with the amino-terminal regions of HDAC4 and -5, but lacks an HDAC catalytic domain. Despite the absence of intrinsic HDAC activity, MITR acts as a potent inhibitor of MEF2-dependent transcription. Paradoxically, however, MITR has minimal inhibitory effects on the skeletal muscle differentiation program. We show that a substitution mutant of MITR containing alanine in place of two serine residues, Ser-218 and Ser-448, acts as a potent repressor of myogenesis. Our findings indicate that promyogenic signals antagonize the inhibitory action of MITR by targeting these serines for phosphorylation. Phosphorylation of Ser-218 and Ser-448 stimulates binding of 14-3-3 to MITR, disrupts MEF2:MITR interactions, and alters the nuclear distribution of MITR. These results reveal a role for MITR as a signal-dependent regulator of muscle differentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CHR3 (nhr-23, NF1F4), the homologue of Drosophila DHR3 and mammalian ROR/RZR/RevErbA nuclear hormone receptors, is important for proper epidermal development and molting in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Disruption of CHR3 (nhr-23) function leads to developmental changes, including incomplete molting and a short, fat (dumpy) phenotype. Here, we studied the role of CHR3 during larval development by using expression assays and RNA-mediated interference. We show that the levels of expression of CHR3 (nhr-23) cycle during larval development and reduction of CHR3 function during each intermolt period result in defects at all subsequent molts. Assaying candidate gene expression in populations of animals treated with CHR3 (nhr-23) RNA-mediated interference has identified dpy-7 as a potential gene acting downstream of CHR3. These results define CHR3 as a critical regulator of all C. elegans molts and begin to define the molecular pathway for its function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plasma levels of corticosterone are often used as a measure of “stress” in wild animal populations. However, we lack conclusive evidence that different stress levels reflect different survival probabilities between populations. Galápagos marine iguanas offer an ideal test case because island populations are affected differently by recurring El Niño famine events, and population-level survival can be quantified by counting iguanas locally. We surveyed corticosterone levels in six populations during the 1998 El Niño famine and the 1999 La Niña feast period. Iguanas had higher baseline and handling stress-induced corticosterone concentrations during famine than feast conditions. Corticosterone levels differed between islands and predicted survival through an El Niño period. However, among individuals, baseline corticosterone was only elevated when body condition dropped below a critical threshold. Thus, the population-level corticosterone response was variable but nevertheless predicted overall population health. Our results lend support to the use of corticosterone as a rapid quantitative predictor of survival in wild animal populations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Swimming fish leave wakes containing hydrodynamic and chemical traces. These traces mark their swim paths and could guide predators. We now show that nocturnal European catfish (Silurus glanis) locate a piscine prey (guppy, Poecilia reticulata) by accurately tracking its three-dimensional swim path before an attack in the absence of visible light. Wakes that were up to 10 s old were followed over distances up to 55 prey-body lengths in our setup. These results demonstrate that prey wakes remain sufficiently identifiable to guide predators, and to extend considerably the area in which prey is detectable. Moreover, wakes elicit rear attacks, which may be more difficult to detect by prey. Wake tracking may be a common strategy among aquatic predators.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sequence comparisons of genomes or expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from related organisms provide insight into functional conservation and diversification. We compare the sequences of ESTs from the male accessory gland of Drosophila simulans to their orthologs in its close relative Drosophila melanogaster, and demonstrate rapid divergence of many of these reproductive genes. Nineteen (∼11%) of 176 independent genes identified in the EST screen contain protein-coding regions with an excess of nonsynonymous over synonymous changes, suggesting that their divergence has been accelerated by positive Darwinian selection. Genes that encode putative accessory gland-specific seminal fluid proteins had a significantly elevated level of nonsynonymous substitution relative to nonaccessory gland-specific genes. With the 57 new accessory gland genes reported here, we predict that ∼90% of the male accessory gland genes have been identified. The evolutionary EST approach applied here to identify putative targets of adaptive evolution is readily applicable to other tissues and organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The phylogenetic relationships among the three orders of modern
 amphibians (Caudata, Gymnophiona, and Anura) have been estimated based
 on both morphological and molecular evidence. Most morphological and
 paleontological studies of living and fossil amphibians support the
 hypothesis that salamanders and frogs are sister lineages (the
 Batrachia hypothesis) and that caecilians are more distantly related.
 Previous interpretations of molecular data based on nuclear and
 mitochondrial rRNA sequences suggested that salamanders and caecilians
 are sister groups to the exclusion of frogs. In an attempt to resolve
 this apparent conflict, the complete mitochondrial genomes of a
 salamander (Mertensiella luschani) and a caecilian
 (Typhlonectes natans) were determined (16,656 and 17,005
 bp, respectively) and compared with previously published sequences from
 a frog (Xenopus laevis) and several other
 groups of vertebrates. Phylogenetic analyses of the mitochondrial data
 supported with high bootstrap values the monophyly of living amphibians
 with respect to other living groups of tetrapods, and a sister group
 relationship of salamanders and frogs. The lack of phylogenetically
 informative sites in the previous rRNA data sets (because of its
 shorter size and higher among-site rate variation) likely explains the
 discrepancy between our results and those based on previous molecular
 data. Strong support of the Batrachia hypothesis from both molecule-
 and morphology-based studies provides a robust phylogenetic framework
 that will be helpful to comparative studies among the three living
 orders of amphibians and will permit better understanding of the
 considerably divergent vertebral, brain, and digit developmental
 patterns found in frogs and salamanders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
SINE (short interspersed element) insertion analysis elucidates contentious aspects in the phylogeny of toothed whales and dolphins (Odontoceti), especially river dolphins. Here, we characterize 25 informative SINEs inserted into unique genomic loci during evolution of odontocetes to construct a cladogram, and determine a total of 2.8 kb per taxon of the flanking sequences of these SINE loci to estimate divergence times among lineages. We demonstrate that: (i) Odontocetes are monophyletic; (ii) Ganges River dolphins, beaked whales, and ocean dolphins diverged (in this order) after sperm whales; (iii) three other river dolphin taxa, namely the Amazon, La Plata, and Yangtze river dolphins, form a monophyletic group with Yangtze River dolphins being the most basal; and (iv) the rapid radiation of extant cetacean lineages occurred some 28–33 million years B.P., in strong accord with the fossil record. The combination of SINE and flanking sequence analysis suggests a topology and set of divergence times for odontocete relationships, offering alternative explanations for several long-standing problems in cetacean evolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Olfactory receptor (OR) genes represent ≈1% of genomic coding sequence in mammals, and these genes are clustered on multiple chromosomes in both the mouse and human genomes. We have taken a comparative genomics approach to identify features that may be involved in the dynamic evolution of this gene family and in the transcriptional control that results in a single OR gene expressed per olfactory neuron. We sequenced ≈350 kb of the murine P2 OR cluster and used synteny, gene linkage, and phylogenetic analysis to identify and sequence ≈111 kb of an orthologous cluster in the human genome. In total, 18 mouse and 8 human OR genes were identified, including 7 orthologs that appear to be functional in both species. Noncoding homology is evident between orthologs and generally is confined within the transcriptional unit. We find no evidence for common regulatory features shared among paralogs, and promoter regions generally do not contain strong promoter motifs. We discuss these observations, as well as OR clustering, in the context of evolutionary expansion and transcriptional regulation of OR repertoires.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Simple phylogenetic tests were applied to a large data set of nucleotide sequences from two nuclear genes and a region of the mitochondrial genome of Trypanosoma cruzi, the agent of Chagas' disease. Incongruent gene genealogies manifest genetic exchange among distantly related lineages of T. cruzi. Two widely distributed isoenzyme types of T. cruzi are hybrids, their genetic composition being the likely result of genetic exchange between two distantly related lineages. The data show that the reference strain for the T. cruzi genome project (CL Brener) is a hybrid. Well-supported gene genealogies show that mitochondrial and nuclear gene sequences from T. cruzi cluster, respectively, in three or four distinct clades that do not fully correspond to the two previously defined major lineages of T. cruzi. There is clear genetic differentiation among the major groups of sequences, but genetic diversity within each major group is low. We estimate that the major extant lineages of T. cruzi have diverged during the Miocene or early Pliocene (3–16 million years ago).
DOC DONE!Abstract
The incubation period (IP) and the neuropathology of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) have been extensively used to distinguish prion isolates (or strains) inoculated into panels of inbred mouse strains. Such studies have shown that the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) agent is indistinguishable from the agent causing variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (vCJD), but differs from isolates of sporadic CJD, reinforcing the idea that the vCJD epidemic in Britain results from consumption of contaminated beef products. We present a mouse model for genetic and environmental factors that modify the incubation period of BSE cross-species transmission. We have used two mouse strains that carry the same prion protein (PrP) allele, but display a 100-day difference in their mean IP following intracerebral inoculation with primary BSE isolate. We report genetic effects on IP that map to four chromosomal regions, and in addition we find significant factors of host environment, namely the age of the host's mother, the age of the host at infection, and an X-cytoplasm interaction in the host.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interlocked feedback loops may represent a common feature among the regulatory systems controlling circadian rhythms. The Neurospora circadian feedback loops involve white collar-1 (wc-1), wc-2, and frequency (frq) genes. We show that WC-1 and WC-2 proteins activate the transcription of frq gene, whereas FRQ protein plays dual roles: repressing its own transcription, probably by interacting with the WC-1/WC-2 complex, and activating the expression of both WC proteins. Thus, they form two interlocked feedback loops: one negative and one positive. We establish the physiological significance of the interlocked positive feedback loops by showing that the levels of WC-1 and WC-2 determine the robustness and stability of the clock. Our data demonstrate that with WC-1 being the limiting factor in the WC-1/WC-2 complex, the greater the levels of WC-1 and WC-2, the higher the level of the FRQ oscillation and the more robust the overt rhythms. Our data also show that, despite considerable changes in the levels of WC-1, WC-2, and FRQ, the period of the clock has been limited to a small range, suggesting that the interlocked circadian feedback loops are also important for determining the circadian period length of the clock.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Deleted in AZoospermia (DAZ) genes encode potential RNA-binding proteins that are expressed exclusively in prenatal and postnatal germ cells and are strong candidates for human fertility factors. Here we report the identification of an additional member of the DAZ gene family, which we have called BOULE. With the identification of this gene, it is clear that the human DAZ gene family contains at least three members: DAZ, a Y-chromosome gene cluster that arose 30–40 million years ago and whose deletion is linked to infertility in men; DAZL, the “father” of DAZ, a gene that maps to human chromosome 3 and has homologs required for both female and male germ cell development in other organisms; and BOULE, a gene that we propose is the “grandfather” of DAZ and maps to human chromosome 2. Human and mouse BOULE resemble the invertebrate meiotic regulator Boule, the proposed ortholog of DAZ, in sequence and expression pattern and hence likely perform a similar meiotic function. In contrast, the previously identified human DAZ and DAZL are expressed much earlier than BOULE in prenatal germ stem cells and spermatogonia; DAZL also is expressed in female germ cells. These data suggest that homologs of the DAZ gene family can be grouped into two subfamilies (BOULE and DAZL) and that members of the DAZ family evolved from an ancestral meiotic regulator, Boule, to assume distinct, yet overlapping, functions in germ cell development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe a method to screen pools of DNA from multiple transposon lines for insertions in many genes simultaneously. We use thermal asymmetric interlaced–PCR, a hemispecific PCR amplification protocol that combines nested, insertion-specific primers with degenerate primers, to amplify DNA flanking the transposons. In reconstruction experiments with previously characterized Arabidopsis lines carrying insertions of the maize Dissociation (Ds) transposon, we show that fluorescently labeled, transposon-flanking fragments overlapping ORFs hybridize to cognate expressed sequence tags (ESTs) on a DNA microarray. We further show that insertions can be detected in DNA pools from as many as 100 plants representing different transposon lines and that all of the tested, transposon-disrupted genes whose flanking fragments can be amplified individually also can be detected when amplified from the pool. The ability of a transposon-flanking fragment to hybridize declines rapidly with decreasing homology to the spotted DNA fragment, so that only ESTs with >90% homology to the transposon-disrupted gene exhibit significant cross-hybridization. Because thermal asymmetric interlaced–PCR fragments tend to be short, use of the present method favors recovery of insertions in and near genes. We apply the technique to screening pools of new Ds lines using cDNA microarrays containing ESTs for ≈1,000 stress-induced and -repressed Arabidopsis genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It has been postulated that ionizing radiation produces a unique form of cellular DNA damage called “clustered damages” or “multiply damaged sites”. Here, we show that clustered DNA damages are indeed formed in Escherichia coli by ionizing radiation and are converted to lethal double-strand breaks during attempted base-excision repair. In wild-type cells possessing the oxidative DNA glycosylases that cleave DNA at repairable single damages, double-strand breaks are formed at radiation-induced clusters during postirradiation incubation and also in a dose-dependent fashion. E. coli mutants lacking these enzymes do not form double-strand breaks postirradiation and are substantially more radioresistant than wild-type cells. Furthermore, overproduction of one of the oxidative DNA glycosylases in mutant cells confers a radiosensitive phenotype and an increase in the number of double-strand breaks. Thus, the effect of the oxidative DNA glycosylases in potentiating DNA damage must be considered when estimating radiation risk.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter TAP translocates peptides from the cytosol to awaiting MHC class I molecules in the endoplasmic reticulum. TAP is made up of the TAP1 and TAP2 polypeptides, which each possess a nucleotide binding domain (NBD). However, the role of ATP in peptide binding and translocation is poorly understood. We present biochemical and functional evidence that the NBDs of TAP1 and TAP2 are non-equivalent. Photolabeling experiments with 8-azido-ATP demonstrate a cooperative interaction between the two NBDs that can be stimulated by peptide. The substitution of key lysine residues in the Walker A motifs of TAP1 and TAP2 suggests that TAP1-mediated ATP hydrolysis is not essential for peptide translocation but that TAP2-mediated ATP hydrolysis is critical, not only for translocation, but for peptide binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The H-2Ld alloreactive 2C T cell receptor (TCR) is commonly considered as being positively selected on the H-2Kb molecule. Surprisingly, 2C TCR+ CD8+ single-positive T cells emerge in massive numbers in fetal thymic organ culture originating from 2C transgenic, H-2KbDb−/− (2C+KbDb−/−) but not in fetal thymic organ culture from β2-microglobulin−/− 2C transgenic animals. Mature CD8+ T cells are observed in newborn but not in adult 2C+KbDb−/− mice. These CD8+ T cells express the α4β7 integrin, which allows them to populate the intestine, a pattern of migration visualized by intrathymic injection of FITC and subsequent accrual of FITC-labeled lymphocytes in the gut. We conclude that the 2C TCR is reactive not only with H-2Ld and H-2Kb, but also with nonclassical MHC class I products to enable positive selection of 2C+ T cells in the fetal and newborn thymus and to support their maintenance in the intestine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The hepatocyte growth factor (HGF/SF) receptor, Met, regulates mitogenesis, motility, and morphogenesis in a cell type-dependent fashion. Activation of Met via autocrine, paracrine, or mutational mechanisms can lead to tumorigenesis and metastasis and numerous studies have linked inappropriate expression of this ligand-receptor pair to most types of human solid tumors. To prepare mAbs to human HGF/SF, mice were immunized with native and denatured preparations of the ligand. Recloned mAbs were tested in vitro for blocking activity against scattering and branching morphogenesis. Our results show that no single mAb was capable of neutralizing the in vitro activity of HGF/SF, and that the ligand possesses a minimum of three epitopes that must be blocked to prevent Met tyrosine kinase activation. In vivo, the neutralizing mAb combination inhibited s.c. growth in athymic nu/nu mice of tumors dependent on an autocrine Met-HGF/SF loop. Importantly, growth of human glioblastoma multiforme xenografts expressing Met and HGF/SF were markedly reduced in the presence of HGF/SF-neutralizing mAbs. These results suggest interrupting autocrine and/or paracrine Met-HGF/SF signaling in tumors dependent on this pathway is a possible intervention strategy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have introduced a targeted mutation in SH2D1A/DSHP/SAP, the gene responsible for the human genetic disorder X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP). SLAM-associated protein (SAP)-deficient mice had normal lymphocyte development, but on challenge with infectious agents, recapitulated features of XLP. Infection of SAP− mice with lymphocyte choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) or Toxoplasma gondii was associated with increased T cell activation and IFN-γ production, as well as a reduction of Ig-secreting cells. Anti-CD3-stimulated splenocytes from uninfected SAP− mice produced increased IFN-γ and decreased IL-4, findings supported by decreased serum IgE levels in vivo. The Th1 skewing of these animals suggests that cytokine misregulation may contribute to phenotypes associated with mutation of SH2D1A/SAP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We searched for clonable committed T cell progenitors in the adult mouse bone marrow and isolated rare (≈0.05%) cells with the Thy-1hiCD2−CD16+CD44hiCD25−Lin− phenotype. In vivo experiments showed that these cells were progenitors committed only to reconstituting the T cell lineage of irradiated Ly5 congenic hosts. Reconstitution of the thymus was minimal compared with that of the bone marrow, spleen, and lymph nodes. At limiting dilutions, donor T cell reconstitution of the spleen frequently occurred without detectable donor cells in the thymus. Progenitors were capable of rapidly reconstituting athymic hosts. In conclusion, the clonable bone marrow progenitors were capable of T cell reconstitution predominantly by means of an extrathymic pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We cloned a rat vascular chymase (RVCH) from smooth muscle cells (SMCs) that converts angiotensin I to II and is up-regulated in SMC from spontaneously hypertensive vs. normotensive rats. To determine whether increased activity of RVCH is sufficient to cause hypertension, transgenic mice were generated with targeted conditional expression of RVCH to SMC, with the use of the tetracycline-controlled transactivator (tTA). We confirmed conditional expression of RVCH by mRNA, protein, and chymase activity in the absence, but not in the presence, of dietary doxycycline. The systolic blood pressure (mmHg), measured by carotid artery cannulation at 10–12 weeks of age, was higher in tTA+/RVCH+ mice than in nonbinary transgenic littermates (136 ± 4 vs. 109 ± 3) (P < 0.05), as were the diastolic and mean pressures. Hypertension was completely reversed by doxycycline, suggesting a causal link with chymase expression. Medial thickening of mesenteric arteries from tTA+/RVCH+ mice vs. littermates (0.82 ± 0.1 vs. 0.42 ± 0.02) (P < 0.05) was associated with increased SMC proliferation, as judged by positive immunoreactivity, with the use of an antibody to the proliferating cell nuclear antigen. These structural changes were prevented by doxycycline. Perfusion myography of mesenteric arteries from tTA+/RVCH+ mice also revealed increased vasoconstriction in response to phenylephrine and impaired metacholine-induced vasodilatation when compared with littermate controls or with the doxycyline-treated group. Our studies suggest that up-regulation of this vascular chymase is sufficient to cause a hypertensive arteriopathy, and that RVCH may be a candidate gene and a therapeutic target in patients with high blood pressure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Insulin resistance is a feature of many common disorders including obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. In these disorders, the β-cells compensate for the insulin resistance for long periods of time with an increase in secretory capacity, an increase in β-cell mass, or both. To determine whether the β-cell response might relate to a circulating growth factor, we have transplanted normal islets under the kidney capsule of normoglycemic insulin-resistant mice with two different models of insulin resistance: lean mice that have a double heterozygous deletion of the insulin receptor and insulin receptor substrate-1 (DH) or the obese, hyperglycemic ob/ob mice. In the grafts transplanted into both hosts, there was a marked increase in β-cell mitotic activity and islet mass that was comparable with that observed in the endogenous pancreas. By contrast, islets of the DH mouse transplanted into normal mice showed reduced mitotic index. These data suggest the insulin resistance is associated with a circulating islet cell growth factor that is independent of glucose and obesity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent endothelial cell mitogen and key regulator of both physiologic and pathologic (e.g., tumor) angiogenesis. In the course of studies designed to assess the ability of constitutive VEGF to block tumor regression in an inducible RAS melanoma model, mice implanted with VEGF-expressing tumors sustained high morbidity and mortality that were out of proportion to the tumor burden. Documented elevated serum levels of VEGF were associated with a lethal hepatic syndrome characterized by massive sinusoidal dilation and endothelial cell proliferation and apoptosis. Systemic levels of VEGF correlated with the severity of liver pathology and overall clinical compromise. A striking reversal of VEGF-induced liver pathology and prolonged survival were achieved by surgical excision of VEGF-secreting tumor or by systemic administration of a potent VEGF antagonist (VEGF-TRAPR1R2), thus defining a paraneoplastic syndrome caused by excessive VEGF activity. Moreover, this VEGF-induced syndrome resembles peliosis hepatis, a rare human condition that is encountered in the setting of advanced malignancies, high-dose androgen therapy, and Bartonella henselae infection. Thus, our findings in the mouse have suggested an etiologic role for VEGF in this disease and may lead to diagnostic and therapeutic options for this debilitating condition in humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A major therapeutic target in the search for a cure to the devastating Alzheimer's disease is γ-secretase. This activity resides in a multiprotein enzyme complex responsible for the generation of Aβ42 peptides, precipitates of which are thought to cause the disease. γ-Secretase is also a critical component of the Notch signal transduction pathway; Notch signals regulate development and differentiation of adult self-renewing cells. This has led to the hypothesis that therapeutic inhibition of γ-secretase may interfere with Notch-related processes in adults, most alarmingly in hematopoiesis. Here, we show that application of γ-secretase inhibitors to fetal thymus organ cultures interferes with T cell development in a manner consistent with loss or reduction of Notch1 function. Progression from an immature CD4−/CD8− state to an intermediate CD4+/CD8+ double-positive state was repressed. Furthermore, treatment beginning later at the double-positive stage specifically inhibited CD8+ single-positive maturation but did not affect CD4+ single-positive cells. These results demonstrate that pharmacological γ-secretase inhibition recapitulates Notch1 loss in a vertebrate tissue and present a system in which rapid evaluation of γ-secretase-targeted pharmaceuticals for their ability to inhibit Notch activity can be performed in a relevant context.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This report describes a tumor-associated antigen, termed CML66, initially cloned from a chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) cDNA expression library. CML66 encodes a 583-aa protein with a molecular mass of 66 kDa and no significant homology to other known genes. CML66 gene is localized to human chromosome 8q23, but the function of this gene is unknown. CML66 is expressed in leukemias and a variety of solid tumor cell lines. When examined by Northern blot, expression in normal tissues was restricted to testis and heart, and no expression was found in hematopoietic tissues. When examined by quantitative reverse transcription–PCR, expression in CML cells was 1.5-fold higher than in normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The presence of CML66-specific antibody in patient serum was confirmed by Western blot and the development of high titer IgG antibody specific for CML66 correlated with immune induced remission of CML in a patient who received infusion of normal donor lymphocytes for treatment of relapse. CML66 antibody also was found in sera from 18–38% of patients with lung cancer, melanoma, and prostate cancer. These findings suggest that CML66 may be immunogenic in a wide variety of malignancies and may be a target for antigen-specific immunotherapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The active form of vitamin D, 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1α,25(OH)2D], is synthesized from its precursor 25 hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] via the catalytic action of the 25(OH)D-1α-hydroxylase [1α(OH)ase] enzyme. Many roles in cell growth and differentiation have been attributed to 1,25(OH)2D, including a central role in calcium homeostasis and skeletal metabolism. To investigate the in vivo functions of 1,25(OH)2D and the molecular basis of its actions, we developed a mouse model deficient in 1α(OH)ase by targeted ablation of the hormone-binding and heme-binding domains of the 1α(OH)ase gene. After weaning, mice developed hypocalcemia, secondary hyperparathyroidism, retarded growth, and the skeletal abnormalities characteristic of rickets. These abnormalities are similar to those described in humans with the genetic disorder vitamin D dependent rickets type I [VDDR-I; also known as pseudovitamin D-deficiency rickets (PDDR)]. Altered non-collagenous matrix protein expression and reduced numbers of osteoclasts were also observed in bone. Female mutant mice were infertile and exhibited uterine hypoplasia and absent corpora lutea. Furthermore, histologically enlarged lymph nodes in the vicinity of the thyroid gland and a reduction in CD4- and CD8-positive peripheral T lymphocytes were observed. Alopecia, reported in vitamin D receptor (VDR)-deficient mice and in humans with VDDR-II, was not seen. The findings establish a critical role for the 1α(OH)ase enzyme in mineral and skeletal homeostasis as well as in female reproduction and also point to an important role in regulating immune function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Clear cell-type renal cell carcinomas (clear RCC) are characterized almost universally by loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 3p, which usually involves any combination of three regions: 3p25-p26 (harboring the VHL gene), 3p12-p14.2 (containing the FHIT gene), and 3p21-p22, implying inactivation of the resident tumor-suppressor genes (TSGs). For the 3p21-p22 region, the affected TSGs remain, at present, unknown. Recently, the RAS association family 1 gene (isoform RASSF1A), located at 3p21.3, has been identified as a candidate lung and breast TSG. In this report, we demonstrate aberrant silencing by hypermethylation of RASSF1A in both VHL-caused clear RCC tumors and clear RCC without VHL inactivation. We found hypermethylation of RASSF1A's GC-rich putative promoter region in most of analyzed samples, including 39 of 43 primary tumors (91%). The promoter was methylated partially or completely in all 18 RCC cell lines analyzed. Methylation of the GC-rich putative RASSF1A promoter region and loss of transcription of the corresponding mRNA were related causally. RASSF1A expression was reactivated after treatment with 5-aza-2′-deoxycytidine. Forced expression of RASSF1A transcripts in KRC/Y, a renal carcinoma cell line containing a normal and expressed VHL gene, suppressed growth on plastic dishes and anchorage-independent colony formation in soft agar. Mutant RASSF1A had reduced growth suppression activity significantly. These data suggest that RASSF1A is the candidate renal TSG gene for the 3p21.3 region.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epidemiological and animal-based investigations have indicated that the development of skin cancer is in part associated with poor dietary practices. Lipid content and subsequently the derived fatty acid composition of the diet are believed to play a major role in the development of tumorigenesis. Omega 3 (ω3) fatty acids, including docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), can effectively reduce the risk of skin cancer whereas omega 6 (ω6) fatty acids such as arachidonic acid (AA) reportedly promote risk. To investigate the effects of fatty acids on tumorigenesis, we performed experiments to examine the effects of the ω3 fatty acids EPA and DHA and of the ω6 fatty acid AA on phorbol 12-tetradecanoate 13-acetate (TPA)-induced or epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced transcription activator protein 1 (AP-1) transactivation and on the subsequent cellular transformation in a mouse epidermal JB6 cell model. DHA treatment resulted in marked inhibition of TPA- and EGF-induced cell transformation by inhibiting AP-1 transactivation. EPA treatment also inhibited TPA-induced AP-1 transactivation and cell transformation but had no effect on EGF-induced transformation. AA treatment had no effect on either TPA- or EGF-induced AP-1 transactivation or transformation, but did abrogate the inhibitory effects of DHA on TPA- or EGF-induced AP-1 transactivation and cell transformation in a dose-dependent manner. The results of this study demonstrate that the inhibitory effects of ω3 fatty acids on tumorigenesis are more significant for DHA than for EPA and are related to an inhibition of AP-1. Similarly, because AA abrogates the beneficial effects of DHA, the dietary ratio of ω6 to ω3 fatty acids may be a significant factor in mediating tumor development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ullrich syndrome is a recessive congenital muscular dystrophy affecting connective tissue and muscle. The molecular basis is unknown. Reverse transcription–PCR amplification performed on RNA extracted from fibroblasts or muscle of three Ullrich patients followed by heteroduplex analysis displayed heteroduplexes in one of the three genes coding for collagen type VI (COL6). In patient A, we detected a homozygous insertion of a C leading to a premature termination codon in the triple-helical domain of COL6A2 mRNA. Both healthy consanguineous parents were carriers. In patient B, we found a deletion of 28 nucleotides because of an A → G substitution at nucleotide −2 of intron 17 causing the activation of a cryptic acceptor site inside exon 18. The second mutation was an exon skipping because of a G → A substitution at nucleotide −1 of intron 23. Both mutations are present in an affected brother. The first mutation is also present in the healthy mother, whereas the second mutation is carried by their healthy father. In patient C, we found only one mutation so far—the same deletion of 28 nucleotides found in patient B. In this case, it was a de novo mutation, as it is absent in her parents. mRNA and protein analysis of patient B showed very low amounts of COL6A2 mRNA and of COL6. A near total absence of COL6 was demonstrated by immunofluorescence in fibroblasts and muscle. Our results demonstrate that Ullrich syndrome is caused by recessive mutations leading to a severe reduction of COL6.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Insulin resistance in skeletal muscle and liver may play a primary role in the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus, and the mechanism by which insulin resistance occurs may be related to alterations in fat metabolism. Transgenic mice with muscle- and liver-specific overexpression of lipoprotein lipase were studied during a 2-h hyperinsulinemic–euglycemic clamp to determine the effect of tissue-specific increase in fat on insulin action and signaling. Muscle–lipoprotein lipase mice had a 3-fold increase in muscle triglyceride content and were insulin resistant because of decreases in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in skeletal muscle and insulin activation of insulin receptor substrate-1-associated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. In contrast, liver–lipoprotein lipase mice had a 2-fold increase in liver triglyceride content and were insulin resistant because of impaired ability of insulin to suppress endogenous glucose production associated with defects in insulin activation of insulin receptor substrate-2-associated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. These defects in insulin action and signaling were associated with increases in intracellular fatty acid-derived metabolites (i.e., diacylglycerol, fatty acyl CoA, ceramides). Our findings suggest a direct and causative relationship between the accumulation of intracellular fatty acid-derived metabolites and insulin resistance mediated via alterations in the insulin signaling pathway, independent of circulating adipocyte-derived hormones.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Effective chemotherapy remains a key issue for successful cancer treatment in general and neuroblastoma in particular. Here we report a chemotherapeutic strategy based on catalytic antibody-mediated prodrug activation. To study this approach in an animal model of neuroblastoma, we have synthesized prodrugs of etoposide, a drug widely used to treat this cancer in humans. The prodrug incorporates a trigger portion designed to be released by sequential retro-aldol/retro-Michael reactions catalyzed by aldolase antibody 38C2. This unique prodrug was greater than 102-fold less toxic than etoposide itself in in vitro assays against the NXS2 neuroblastoma cell line. Drug activity was restored after activation by antibody 38C2. Proof of principle for local antibody-catalyzed prodrug activation in vivo was established in a syngeneic model of murine neuroblastoma. Mice with established 100-mm3 s.c. tumors who received one intratumoral injection of antibody 38C2 followed by systemic i.p. injections with the etoposide prodrug showed a 75% reduction in s.c. tumor growth. In contrast, injection of either antibody or prodrug alone had no antitumor effect. Systemic injections of etoposide at the maximum tolerated dose were significantly less effective than the intratumoral antibody 38C2 and systemic etoposide prodrug combination. Significantly, mice treated with the prodrug at 30-fold the maximum tolerated dose of etoposide showed no signs of prodrug toxicity, indicating that the prodrug is not activated by endogenous enzymes. These results suggest that this strategy may provide a new and potentially nonimmunogenic approach for targeted cancer chemotherapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Unlike many pathogens that are overtly toxic to their hosts, the primary virulence determinant of Mycobacterium tuberculosis appears to be its ability to persist for years or decades within humans in a clinically latent state. Since early in the 20th century latency has been linked to hypoxic conditions within the host, but the response of M. tuberculosis to a hypoxic signal remains poorly characterized. The M. tuberculosis α-crystallin (acr) gene is powerfully and rapidly induced at reduced oxygen tensions, providing us with a means to identify regulators of the hypoxic response. Using a whole genome microarray, we identified >100 genes whose expression is rapidly altered by defined hypoxic conditions. Numerous genes involved in biosynthesis and aerobic metabolism are repressed, whereas a high proportion of the induced genes have no known function. Among the induced genes is an apparent operon that includes the putative two-component response regulator pair Rv3133c/Rv3132c. When we interrupted expression of this operon by targeted disruption of the upstream gene Rv3134c, the hypoxic regulation of acr was eliminated. These results suggest a possible role for Rv3132c/3133c/3134c in mycobacterial latency.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To optimize photosynthesis, cyanobacteria move toward or away from a light source by a process known as phototaxis. Phototactic movement of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC6803 is a surface-dependent phenomenon that requires type IV pili, cellular appendages implicated in twitching and social motility in a range of bacteria. To elucidate regulation of cyanobacterial motility, we generated transposon-tagged mutants with aberrant phototaxis; mutants were either nonmotile or exhibited an “inverted motility response” (negative phototaxis) relative to wild-type cells. Several mutants contained transposons in genes similar to those involved in bacterial chemotaxis. Synechocystis PCC6803 has three loci with chemotaxis-like genes, of which two, Tax1 and Tax3, are involved in phototaxis. Transposons interrupting the Tax1 locus yielded mutants that exhibited an inverted motility response, suggesting that this locus is involved in controlling positive phototaxis. However, a strain null for taxAY1 was nonmotile and hyperpiliated. Interestingly, whereas the C-terminal region of the TaxD1 polypeptide is similar to the signaling domain of enteric methyl-accepting chemoreceptor proteins, the N terminus has two domains resembling chromophore-binding domains of phytochrome, a photoreceptor in plants. Hence, TaxD1 may play a role in perceiving the light stimulus. Mutants in the Tax3 locus are nonmotile and do not make type IV pili. These findings establish links between chemotaxis-like regulatory elements and type IV pilus-mediated phototaxis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Symbiotic associations with microorganisms are pivotal in many insects. Yet, the functional roles of obligate symbionts have been difficult to study because it has not been possible to cultivate these organisms in vitro. The medically important tsetse fly (Diptera: Glossinidae) relies on its obligate endosymbiont, Wigglesworthia glossinidia, a member of the Enterobacteriaceae, closely related to Escherichia coli, for fertility and possibly nutrition. We show here that the intracellular Wigglesworthia has a reduced genome size smaller than 770 kb. In an attempt to understand the composition of its genome, we used the gene arrays developed for E. coli. We were able to identify 650 orthologous genes in Wigglesworthia corresponding to ≈85% of its genome. The arrays were also applied for expression analysis using Wigglesworthia cDNA and 61 gene products were detected, presumably coding for some of its most abundant products. Overall, genes involved in cell processes, DNA replication, transcription, and translation were found largely retained in the small genome of Wigglesworthia. In addition, genes coding for transport proteins, chaperones, biosynthesis of cofactors, and some amino acids were found to comprise a significant portion, suggesting an important role for these proteins in its symbiotic life. Based on its expression profile, we predict that Wigglesworthia may be a facultative anaerobic organism that utilizes ammonia as its major source of nitrogen. We present an application of E. coli gene arrays to obtain broad genome information for a closely related organism in the absence of complete genome sequence data.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Species of pathogenic microbes are composed of an array of evolutionarily distinct chromosomal genotypes characterized by diversity in gene content and sequence (allelic variation). The occurrence of substantial genetic diversity has hindered progress in developing a comprehensive understanding of the molecular basis of virulence and new therapeutics such as vaccines. To provide new information that bears on these issues, 11 genes encoding extracellular proteins in the human bacterial pathogen group A Streptococcus identified by analysis of four genomes were studied. Eight of the 11 genes encode proteins with a LPXTG(L) motif that covalently links Gram-positive virulence factors to the bacterial cell surface. Sequence analysis of the 11 genes in 37 geographically and phylogenetically diverse group A Streptococcus strains cultured from patients with different infection types found that recent horizontal gene transfer has contributed substantially to chromosomal diversity. Regions of the inferred proteins likely to interact with the host were identified by molecular population genetic analysis, and Western immunoblot analysis with sera from infected patients confirmed that they were antigenic. Real-time reverse transcriptase–PCR (TaqMan) assays found that transcription of six of the 11 genes was substantially up-regulated in the stationary phase. In addition, transcription of many genes was influenced by the covR and mga trans-acting gene regulatory loci. Multilocus investigation of putative virulence genes by the integrated approach described herein provides an important strategy to aid microbial pathogenesis research and rapidly identify new targets for therapeutics research.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dopamine receptor genes are under complex transcription control, determining their unique regional distribution in the brain. We describe here a zinc finger type transcription factor, designated dopamine receptor regulating factor (DRRF), which binds to GC and GT boxes in the D1A and D2 dopamine receptor promoters and effectively displaces Sp1 and Sp3 from these sequences. Consequently, DRRF can modulate the activity of these dopamine receptor promoters. Highest DRRF mRNA levels are found in brain with a specific regional distribution including olfactory bulb and tubercle, nucleus accumbens, striatum, hippocampus, amygdala, and frontal cortex. Many of these brain regions also express abundant levels of various dopamine receptors. In vivo, DRRF itself can be regulated by manipulations of dopaminergic transmission. Mice treated with drugs that increase extracellular striatal dopamine levels (cocaine), block dopamine receptors (haloperidol), or destroy dopamine terminals (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) show significant alterations in DRRF mRNA. The latter observations provide a basis for dopamine receptor regulation after these manipulations. We conclude that DRRF is important for modulating dopaminergic transmission in the brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a 19-aa cyclic neuropeptide originally isolated from chum salmon pituitaries. Besides its effects on the aggregation of melanophores in fish several lines of evidence suggest that in mammals MCH functions as a regulator of energy homeostasis. Recently, several groups reported the identification of an orphan G protein-coupled receptor as a receptor for MCH (MCH-1R). We hereby report the identification of a second human MCH receptor termed MCH-2R, which shares about 38% amino acid identity with MCH-1R. MCH-2R displayed high-affinity MCH binding, resulting in inositol phosphate turnover and release of intracellular calcium in mammalian cells. In contrast to MCH-1R, MCH-2R signaling is not sensitive to pertussis toxin and MCH-2R cannot reduce forskolin-stimulated cAMP production, suggesting an exclusive Gαq coupling of the MCH-2R in cell-based systems. Northern blot and in situ hybridization analysis of human and monkey tissue shows that expression of MCH-2R mRNA is restricted to several regions of the brain, including the arcuate nucleus and the ventral medial hypothalamus, areas implicated in regulation of body weight. In addition, the human MCH-2R gene was mapped to the long arm of chromosome 6 at band 6q16.2–16.3, a region reported to be associated with cytogenetic abnormalities of obese patients. The characterization of a second mammalian G protein-coupled receptor for MCH potentially indicates that the control of energy homeostasis in mammals by the MCH neuropeptide system may be more complex than initially anticipated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) family of neuropeptides includes the mammalian peptides CRF, urocortin, and urocortin II, as well as piscine urotensin I and frog sauvagine. The mammalian peptides signal through two G protein-coupled receptor types to modulate endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress, as well as a range of peripheral (cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and immune) activities. The three previously known ligands are differentially distributed anatomically and have distinct specificities for the two major receptor types. Here we describe the characterization of an additional CRF-related peptide, urocortin III, in the human and mouse. In searching the public human genome databases we found a partial expressed sequence tagged (EST) clone with significant sequence identity to mammalian and fish urocortin-related peptides. By using primers based on the human EST sequence, a full-length human clone was isolated from genomic DNA that encodes a protein that includes a predicted putative 38-aa peptide structurally related to other known family members. With a human probe, we then cloned the mouse ortholog from a genomic library. Human and mouse urocortin III share 90% identity in the 38-aa putative mature peptide. In the peptide coding region, both human and mouse urocortin III are 76% identical to pufferfish urocortin-related peptide and more distantly related to urocortin II, CRF, and urocortin from other mammalian species. Mouse urocortin III mRNA expression is found in areas of the brain including the hypothalamus, amygdala, and brainstem, but is not evident in the cerebellum, pituitary, or cerebral cortex; it is also expressed peripherally in small intestine and skin. Urocortin III is selective for type 2 CRF receptors and thus represents another potential endogenous ligand for these receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), a neuropeptide expressed in central and peripheral nervous systems, plays an important role in the control of feeding behaviors and energy metabolism. An orphan G protein-coupled receptor (SLC-1/GPR24) has recently been identified as a receptor for MCH (MCHR1). We report here the identification and characterization of a G protein-coupled receptor as the MCH receptor subtype 2 (MCHR2). MCHR2 has higher protein sequence homology to MCHR1 than any other G protein-coupled receptor. The expression of MCHR2 has been detected in many regions of the brain. In contrast to MCHR1, which is intronless in the coding region and is located at the chromosomal locus 22q13.3, the MCHR2 gene has multiple exons and is mapped to locus 6q21. MCHR2 is specifically activated by nanomolar concentrations of MCH, binds to MCH with high affinity, and signals through Gq protein. This discovery is important for a full understanding of MCH biology and the development of potential therapeutics for diseases involving MCH, including obesity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using adenoviruses encoding reporter genes as retrograde tracers, we assessed the capacity of motoneurons to take up and retrogradely transport adenoviral particles injected into the muscles of transgenic mice expressing the G93A human superoxide dismutase mutation, a model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Surprisingly, transgene expression in the motoneurons was significantly higher in symptomatic mice than in control or presymptomatic mice. Using botulinum toxin to induce nerve sprouting at neuromuscular junctions, we showed that the unexpectedly high level of motoneurons retrograde transduction results, at least in part, from newly acquired uptake properties of the sprouts. These findings demonstrate the remarkable uptake properties of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis motoneurons in response to denervation and the rationale of using intramuscular injections of adenoviruses to overexpress therapeutic proteins in motor neuron diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Invertebrate species possess one or two Na+ channel genes, yet there are 10 in mammals. When did this explosive growth come about during vertebrate evolution? All mammalian Na+ channel genes reside on four chromosomes. It has been suggested that this came about by multiple duplications of an ancestral chromosome with a single Na+ channel gene followed by tandem duplications of Na+ channel genes on some of these chromosomes. Because a large-scale expansion of the vertebrate genome likely occurred before the divergence of teleosts and tetrapods, we tested this hypothesis by cloning Na+ channel genes in a teleost fish. Using an approach designed to clone all of the Na+ channel genes in a genome, we found six Na+ channel genes. Phylogenetic comparisons show that each teleost gene is orthologous to a Na+ channel gene or gene cluster on a different mammalian chromosome, supporting the hypothesis that four Na+ channel genes were present in the ancestors of teleosts and tetrapods. Further duplications occurred independently in the teleost and tetrapod lineages, with a greater number of duplications in tetrapods. This pattern has implications for the evolution of function and specialization of Na+ channel genes in vertebrates. Sodium channel genes also are linked to homeobox (Hox) gene clusters in mammals. Using our phylogeny of Na+ channel genes to independently test between two models of Hox gene evolution, we support the hypothesis that Hox gene clusters evolved as (AB) (CD) rather than {D[A(BC)]}.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Functional brain mapping based on changes in local cerebral blood flow (lCBF) or glucose utilization (lCMRglc) induced by functional activation is generally carried out in animals under anesthesia, usually α-chloralose because of its lesser effects on cardiovascular, respiratory, and reflex functions. Results of studies on the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the mechanism of functional activation of lCBF have differed in unanesthetized and anesthetized animals. NO synthase inhibition markedly attenuates or eliminates the lCBF responses in anesthetized animals but not in unanesthetized animals. The present study examines in conscious rats and rats anesthetized with α-chloralose the effects of vibrissal stimulation on lCMRglc and lCBF in the whisker-to-barrel cortex pathway and on the effects of NO synthase inhibition with NG-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) on the magnitude of the responses. Anesthesia markedly reduced the lCBF and lCMRglc responses in the ventral posteromedial thalamic nucleus and barrel cortex but not in the spinal and principal trigeminal nuclei. l-NAME did not alter the lCBF responses in any of the structures of the pathway in the unanesthetized rats and also not in the trigeminal nuclei of the anesthetized rats. In the thalamus and sensory cortex of the anesthetized rats, where the lCBF responses to stimulation had already been drastically diminished by the anesthesia, l-NAME treatment resulted in loss of statistically significant activation of lCBF by vibrissal stimulation. These results indicate that NO does not mediate functional activation of lCBF under physiological conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antillatoxin (ATX) is a lipopeptide derived from the pantropical marine cyanobacterium Lyngbya majuscula. ATX is neurotoxic in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells, and this neuronal death is prevented by either N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists or tetrodotoxin. To further explore the potential interaction of ATX with voltage-gated sodium channels, we assessed the influence of tetrodotoxin on ATX-induced Ca2+ influx in cerebellar granule cells. The rapid increase in intracellular Ca2+ produced by ATX (100 nM) was antagonized in a concentration-dependent manner by tetrodotoxin. Additional, more direct, evidence for an interaction with voltage-gated sodium channels was derived from the ATX-induced allosteric enhancement of [3H]batrachotoxin binding to neurotoxin site 2 of the α subunit of the sodium channel. ATX, moreover, produced a strong synergistic stimulation of [3H]batrachotoxin binding in combination with brevetoxin, which is a ligand for neurotoxin site 5 on the voltage-gated sodium channel. Positive allosteric interactions were not observed between ATX and either α-scorpion toxin or the pyrethroid deltamethrin. That ATX interaction with voltage-gated sodium channels produces a gain of function was demonstrated by the concentration-dependent and tetrodotoxin-sensitive stimulation of 22Na+ influx in cerebellar granule cells exposed to ATX. Together these results demonstrate that the lipopeptide ATX is an activator of voltage-gated sodium channels. The neurotoxic actions of ATX therefore resemble those of brevetoxins that produce neural insult through depolarization-evoked Na+ load, glutamate release, relief of Mg2+ block of NMDA receptors, and Ca2 + influx.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The reduction in levels of the potentially toxic amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) has emerged as one of the most important therapeutic goals in Alzheimer's disease. Key targets for this goal are factors that affect the expression and processing of the Aβ precursor protein (βAPP). Earlier reports from our laboratory have shown that a novel cholinesterase inhibitor, phenserine, reduces βAPP levels in vivo. Herein, we studied the mechanism of phenserine's actions to define the regulatory elements in βAPP processing. Phenserine treatment resulted in decreased secretion of soluble βAPP and Aβ into the conditioned media of human neuroblastoma cells without cellular toxicity. The regulation of βAPP protein expression by phenserine was posttranscriptional as it suppressed βAPP protein expression without altering βAPP mRNA levels. However, phenserine's action was neither mediated through classical receptor signaling pathways, involving extracellular signal-regulated kinase or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activation, nor was it associated with the anticholinesterase activity of the drug. Furthermore, phenserine reduced expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter fused to the 5′-mRNA leader sequence of βAPP without altering expression of a control chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter. These studies suggest that phenserine reduces Aβ levels by regulating βAPP translation via the recently described iron regulatory element in the 5′-untranslated region of βAPP mRNA, which has been shown previously to be up-regulated in the presence of interleukin-1. This study identifies an approach for the regulation of βAPP expression that can result in a substantial reduction in the level of Aβ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adenosine is an inhibitor of neuronal activity in the brain. The local release of adenosine from grafted cells was evaluated as an ex vivo gene therapy approach to suppress synchronous discharges and epileptic seizures. Fibroblasts were engineered to release adenosine by inactivating the adenosine-metabolizing enzymes adenosine kinase and adenosine deaminase. After encapsulation into semipermeable polymers, the cells were grafted into the brain ventricles of electrically kindled rats, a model of partial epilepsy. Grafted rats provided a nearly complete protection from behavioral seizures and a near-complete suppression of afterdischarges in electroencephalogram recordings, whereas the full tonic–clonic convulsions in control rats remained unaltered. Thus, the local release of adenosine resulting in adenosine concentrations <25 nM at the site of action is sufficient to suppress seizure activity and, therefore, provides a potential therapeutic principle for the treatment of drug-resistant partial epilepsies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adenosine and its endogenous precursor ATP are main components of the purinergic system that modulates cellular and tissue functions via specific adenosine and ATP receptors (P1 and P2 receptors), respectively. Although adenosine inhibits excitability and ATP functions as an excitatory transmitter in the central nervous system, little is known about the ability of P1 and P2 receptors to form new functional structures such as a heteromer to control the complex purinergic cascade. Here we have shown that Gi/o protein-coupled A1 adenosine receptor (A1R) and Gq protein-coupled P2Y1 receptor (P2Y1R) coimmunoprecipitate in cotransfected HEK293T cells, suggesting the oligomeric association between distinct G protein-coupled P1 and P2 receptors. A1R and P2Y2 receptor, but not A1R and dopamine D2 receptor, also were found to coimmunoprecipitate in cotransfected cells. A1R agonist and antagonist binding to cell membranes were reduced by coexpression of A1R and P2Y1R, whereas a potent P2Y1R agonist adenosine 5′-O-(2-thiotriphosphate) (ADPβS) revealed a significant potency to A1R binding only in the cotransfected cell membranes. Moreover, the A1R/P2Y1R coexpressed cells showed an ADPβS-dependent reduction of forskolin-evoked cAMP accumulation that was sensitive to pertussis toxin and A1R antagonist, indicating that ADPβS binds A1R and inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity via Gi/o proteins. Also, a high degree of A1R and P2Y1R colocalization was demonstrated in cotransfected cells by double immunofluorescence experiments with confocal laser microscopy. These results suggest that oligomeric association of A1R with P2Y1R generates A1R with P2Y1R-like agonistic pharmacology and provides a molecular mechanism for an increased diversity of purine signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transduction of energetic signals into membrane electrical events governs vital cellular functions, ranging from hormone secretion and cytoprotection to appetite control and hair growth. Central to the regulation of such diverse cellular processes are the metabolism sensing ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels. However, the mechanism that communicates metabolic signals and integrates cellular energetics with KATP channel-dependent membrane excitability remains elusive. Here, we identify that the response of KATP channels to metabolic challenge is regulated by adenylate kinase phosphotransfer. Adenylate kinase associates with the KATP channel complex, anchoring cellular phosphotransfer networks and facilitating delivery of mitochondrial signals to the membrane environment. Deletion of the adenylate kinase gene compromised nucleotide exchange at the channel site and impeded communication between mitochondria and KATP channels, rendering cellular metabolic sensing defective. Assigning a signal processing role to adenylate kinase identifies a phosphorelay mechanism essential for efficient coupling of cellular energetics with KATP channels and associated functions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In prostanoid biosynthesis, the first two steps are catalyzed by cyclooxygenases (COX). In mice and humans, deregulated expression of COX-2, but not of COX-1, is characteristic of epithelial tumors, including squamous cell carcinomas of skin. To explore the function of COX-2 in epidermis, a keratin 5 promoter was used to direct COX-2 expression to the basal cells of interfollicular epidermis and the pilosebaceous appendage of transgenic mouse skin. COX-2 overexpression in the expected locations, resulting in increased prostaglandin levels in epidermis and plasma, correlated with a pronounced skin phenotype. Heterozygous transgenic mice exhibited a reduced hair follicle density. Moreover, postnatally hair follicle morphogenesis and thinning of interfollicular dorsal epidermis were delayed. Adult transgenics showed a body-site-dependent sparse coat of greasy hair, the latter caused by sebaceous gland hyperplasia and increased epicutaneous sebum levels. In tail skin, hyperplasia of scale epidermis reflecting an increased number of viable and cornified cell layers was observed. Hyperplasia was a result of a disturbed program of epidermal differentiation rather than an increased proliferation rate, as reflected by the strong suppression of keratin 10, involucrin, and loricrin expression in suprabasal cells. Further pathological signs were loss of cell polarity, mainly of basal keratinocytes, epidermal invaginations into the dermis, and formation of horn perls. Invaginating hyperplastic lobes were surrounded by CD31-positive vessels. These results demonstrate a causal relationship between transgenic COX-2 expression in basal keratinocytes and epidermal hyperplasia as well as dysplastic features at discrete body sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The promoter from rice tungro bacilliform badnavirus (RTBV) is expressed only in phloem tissues in transgenic rice plants. RF2a, a b-Zip protein from rice, is known to bind to the Box II cis element near the TATA box of the promoter. Here, we report that the full-length RTBV promoter and a truncated fragment E of the promoter, comprising nucleotides −164 to +45, result in phloem-specific expression of β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter genes in transgenic tobacco plants. When a fusion gene comprising the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and RF2a cDNA was coexpressed with the GUS reporter genes, GUS activity was increased by 2–20-fold. The increase in GUS activity was positively correlated with the amount of RF2a, and the expression pattern of the RTBV promoter was altered from phloem-specific to constitutive. Constitutive expression of RF2a did not induce morphological changes in the transgenic plants. In contrast, constitutive overexpression of the b-ZIP domain of RF2a had a strong effect on the development of transgenic plants. These studies suggest that expression of the b-Zip domain can interfere with the function of homologues of RF2a that regulate development of tobacco plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Encapsulation complexes are assemblies in which a reversibly formed host more or less completely surrounds guest molecules. Host structures held together by hydrogen bonds have lifetimes in organic solvents of milliseconds to hours, long enough to directly observe the encapsulated guest by NMR spectroscopy. We describe here the action of alkyl ammonium compounds as guests that gather up to six molecules of the host module to form encapsulation complexes. The stoichiometry of the complexes—the largest hydrogen-bonded host capsules to date—is determined by the size and concentration of the guest.
DOC DONE!Abstract
How a reacting system climbs through a transition state during the course of a reaction has been an intriguing subject for decades. Here we present and quantify a technique to identify and characterize local invariances about the transition state of an N-particle Hamiltonian system, using Lie canonical perturbation theory combined with microcanonical molecular dynamics simulation. We show that at least three distinct energy regimes of dynamical behavior occur in the region of the transition state, distinguished by the extent of their local dynamical invariance and regularity. Isomerization of a six-atom Lennard–Jones cluster illustrates this: up to energies high enough to make the system manifestly chaotic, approximate invariants of motion associated with a reaction coordinate in phase space imply a many-body dividing hypersurface in phase space that is free of recrossings even in a sea of chaos. The method makes it possible to visualize the stable and unstable invariant manifolds leading to and from the transition state, i.e., the reaction path in phase space, and how this regularity turns to chaos with increasing total energy of the system. This, in turn, illuminates a new type of phase space bottleneck in the region of a transition state that emerges as the total energy and mode coupling increase, which keeps a reacting system increasingly trapped in that region.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The perceived colors of reflecting surfaces generally remain stable despite changes in the spectrum of the illuminating light. This color constancy can be measured operationally by asking observers to distinguish illuminant changes on a scene from changes in the reflecting properties of the surfaces comprising it. It is shown here that during fast illuminant changes, simultaneous changes in spectral reflectance of one or more surfaces in an array of other surfaces can be readily detected almost independent of the numbers of surfaces, suggesting a preattentive, spatially parallel process. This process, which is perfect over a spatial window delimited by the anatomical fovea, may form an early input to a multistage analysis of surface color, providing the visual system with information about a rapidly changing world in advance of the generation of a more elaborate and stable perceptual representation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fossil primates have been known from the late middle to late Eocene Pondaung Formation of Myanmar since the description of Pondaungia cotteri in 1927. Three additional primate taxa, Amphipithecus mogaungensis, Bahinia pondaungensis and Myanmarpithecus yarshensis, were subsequently described. These primates are represented mostly by fragmentary dental and cranial remains. Here we describe the first primate postcrania from Myanmar, including a complete left humerus, a fragmentary right humerus, parts of left and right ulnae, and the distal half of a left calcaneum, all representing one individual. We assign this specimen to a large species of Pondaungia based on body size and the known geographic distribution and diversity of Myanmar primates. Body weight estimates of Pondaungia range from 4,000 to 9,000 g, based on humeral length, humeral midshaft diameter, and tooth area by using extant primate regressions. The humerus and ulna indicate that Pondaungia was capable of a wide variety of forelimb movements, with great mobility at the shoulder joint. Morphology of the distal calcaneus indicates that the hind feet were mobile at the transverse tarsal joint. Postcrania of Pondaungia present a mosaic of features, some shared in common with notharctine and adapine adapiforms, some shared with extant lorises and cebids, some shared with fossil anthropoids, and some unique. Overall, Pondaungia humeral and calcaneal morphology is most consistent with that of other known adapiforms. It does not support the inclusion of Pondaungia in Anthropoidea.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Functional annotation of novel genes can be achieved by detection of interactions of their encoded proteins with known proteins followed by assays to validate that the gene participates in a specific cellular function. We report an experimental strategy that allows for detection of protein interactions and functional assays with a single reporter system. Interactions among biochemical network component proteins are detected and probed with stimulators and inhibitors of the network. In addition, the cellular location of the interacting proteins is determined. We used this strategy to map a signal transduction network that controls initiation of translation in eukaryotes. We analyzed 35 different pairs of full-length proteins and identified 14 interactions, of which five have not been observed previously, suggesting that the organization of the pathway is more ramified and integrated than previously shown. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of using this strategy in efforts of genomewide functional annotation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Binase, a member of a family of microbial guanyl-specific ribonucleases, catalyzes the endonucleotic cleavage of single-stranded RNA. It shares 82% amino acid identity with the well-studied protein barnase. We used NMR spectroscopy to study the millisecond dynamics of this small enzyme, using several methods including the measurement of residual dipolar couplings in solution. Our data show that the active site of binase is flanked by loops that are flexible at the 300-μs time scale. One of the catalytic residues, His-101, is located on such a flexible loop. In contrast, the other catalytic residue, Glu-72, is located on a β-sheet, and is static. The residues Phe-55, part of the guanine base recognition site, and Tyr-102, stabilizing the base, are the most dynamic. Our findings suggest that binase possesses an active site that has a well-defined bottom, but which has sides that are flexible to facilitate substrate access/egress, and to deliver one of the catalytic residues. The motion in these loops does not change on complexation with the inhibitor d(CGAG) and compares well with the maximum kcat (1,500 s−1) of these ribonucleases. This observation indicates that the NMR-measured loop motions reflect the opening necessary for product release, which is apparently rate limiting for the overall turnover.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Studies of initial activities of carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (CODH) from Rhodospirillum rubrum show that CODH is mostly inactive at redox potentials higher than −300 mV. Initial activities measured at a wide range of redox potentials (0–500 mV) fit a function corresponding to the Nernst equation with a midpoint potential of −316 mV. Previously, extensive EPR studies of CODH have suggested that CODH has three distinct redox states: (i) a spin-coupled state at −60 to −300 mV that gives rise to an EPR signal termed Cred1; (ii) uncoupled states at <−320 mV in the absence of CO2 referred to as Cunc; and (iii) another spin-coupled state at <−320 mV in the presence of CO2 that gives rise to an EPR signal termed Cred2B. Because there is no initial CODH activity at potentials that give rise to Cred1, the state (Cred1) is not involved in the catalytic mechanism of this enzyme. At potentials more positive than −380 mV, CODH recovers its full activity over time when incubated with CO. This reductant-dependent conversion of CODH from an inactive to an active form is referred to hereafter as “autocatalysis.” Analyses of the autocatalytic activation process of CODH suggest that the autocatalysis is initiated by a small fraction of activated CODH; the small fraction of active CODH catalyzes CO oxidation and consequently lowers the redox potential of the assay system. This process is accelerated with time because of accumulation of the active enzyme.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present a quantitative experimental demonstration of solvent-mediated communication between noncontacting biopolymers. We show that changes in the activity of a solvent component brought about by a conformational change in one biopolymer can result in changes in the physical properties of a second noncontacting biopolymer present in solution. Specifically, we show that the release of protons on denaturation of a donor polymer (in this case, a four-stranded DNA tetraplex, iDNA) modulates the melting temperature of a noncontacting, acceptor polymer [in this case poly(A)]. In addition to such proton-mediated cross talk, we also demonstrate counterion-mediated cross talk between noncontacting biopolymers. Specifically, we show that counterion association/release on denaturation of native salmon sperm DNA (the donor polymer) can modulate the melting temperature of poly(dA)⋅poly(dT) (the acceptor polymer). Taken together, these two examples demonstrate how poly(A) and poly(dA)⋅poly(dT) can serve as molecular probes that report the pH and free salt concentrations in solution, respectively. Further, we demonstrate how such through-solvent dialogue between biopolymers that do not directly interact can be used to evaluate (in a model-free manner) association/dissociation reactions of solvent components (e.g., protons, sodium cations) with one of the two biopolymers. We propose that such through-solution dialogue is a general property of all biopolymers. As a result, such solvent-mediated cross talk should be considered when assessing reactions of multicomponent systems such as those that exist in essentially all biological processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The highest concentrations of prostaglandins in nature are found in the Caribbean gorgonian Plexaura homomalla. Depending on its geographical location, this coral contains prostaglandins with typical mammalian stereochemistry (15S-hydroxy) or the unusual 15R-prostaglandins. Their metabolic origin has remained the subject of mechanistic speculations for three decades. Here, we report the structure of a type of cyclooxygenase (COX) that catalyzes transformation of arachidonic acid into 15R-prostaglandins. Using a homology-based reverse transcriptase–PCR strategy, we cloned a cDNA corresponding to a COX protein from the R variety of P. homomalla. The deduced peptide sequence shows 80% identity with the 15S-specific coral COX from the Arctic soft coral Gersemia fruticosa and ≈50% identity to mammalian COX-1 and COX-2. The predicted tertiary structure shows high homology with mammalian COX isozymes having all of the characteristic structural units and the amino acid residues important in catalysis. Some structural differences are apparent around the peroxidase active site, in the membrane-binding domain, and in the pattern of glycosylation. When expressed in Sf9 cells, the P. homomalla enzyme forms a 15R-prostaglandin endoperoxide together with 11R-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid and 15R-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid as by-products. The endoperoxide gives rise to 15R-prostaglandins and 12R-hydroxyheptadecatrienoic acid, identified by comparison to authentic standards. Evaluation of the structural differences of this 15R-COX isozyme should provide new insights into the substrate binding and stereospecificity of the dioxygenation reaction of arachidonic acid in the cyclooxygenase active site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In an RNA world, RNAs would have regulated traffic through normally impermeable bilayer membranes. Using selection-amplification we previously found RNAs that bind stably and increase the ionic conductance of phospholipid membranes at high Mg2+ and Ca2+ concentrations. Now selection in reduced divalents yields RNAs that bind phosphatidylcholine liposomes under conditions closer to physiological. Such affinity for phospholipid membranes requires interactions between RNAs. In fact, we detected no functional monomeric membrane-binding RNAs. A membrane-active end-to-end heterotrimer consisting of 2 RNA 9 and 1 RNA 10 is defined by nucleotide protection, oligonucleotide competition, and mutant analysis. Oligomers of the heterotrimer bind stably, cause release of liposome-encapsulated solutes, and disrupt model black membranes. Individual RNA molecules do not show any of these activities. This novel mechanism of RNA binding to lipid membranes may not only regulate membrane permeability, but suggests that arrays of catalytic or structural RNAs on membranes are plausible. Finally, a selection met only by RNA complexes evokes new possibilities for selection-amplification itself.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microcin B17 (MccB17) is a 3.1-kDa Escherichia coli antibiotic that contains thiazole and oxazole heterocycles in a peptide backbone. MccB17 inhibits its cellular target, DNA gyrase, by trapping the enzyme in a complex that is covalently bound to double-strand cleaved DNA, in a manner similar to the well-known quinolone drugs. The identification of gyrase as the target of MccB17 provides an opportunity to analyze the relationship between the structure of this unusual antibiotic and its activity. In this report, steady-state parameters are used to describe the induction of the cleavable complex by MccB17 analogs containing modified bisheterocyclic sites. The relative potency of these analogs corresponds to the capacity of the compounds to prevent growth of sensitive cells. In contrast to previously reported experiments, inhibition of DNA gyrase supercoiling activity by wild-type MccB17 also was observed. These results suggest that DNA gyrase is the main intracellular target of MccB17. This study probes the structure-function relationship of a new class of gyrase inhibitors and demonstrates that these techniques could be used to analyze compounds in the search for clinically useful antibiotics that block DNA gyrase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited blinding diseases caused by mutations in multiple genes including RDS. RDS encodes rds/peripherin (rds), a 36-kDa glycoprotein in the rims of rod and cone outer-segment (OS) discs. Rom1 is related to rds with similar membrane topology and the identical distribution in OS. In contrast to RDS, no mutations in ROM1 alone have been associated with retinal disease. However, an unusual digenic form of RP has been described. Affected individuals in several families were doubly heterozygous for a mutation in RDS causing a leucine 185 to proline substitution in rds (L185P) and a null mutation in ROM1. Neither mutation alone caused clinical abnormalities. Here, we generated transgenic/knockout mice that duplicate the amino acid substitutions and predicted levels of rds and rom1 in patients with RDS-mediated digenic and dominant RP. Photoreceptor degeneration in the mouse model of digenic RP was faster than in the wild-type and monogenic controls by histological, electroretinographic, and biochemical analysis. We observed a positive correlation between the rate of photoreceptor loss and the extent of OS disorganization in mice of several genotypes. Photoreceptor degeneration in RDS-mediated RP appears to be caused by a simple deficiency of rds and rom1. The critical threshold for the combined abundance of rds and rom1 is ≈60% of wild type. Below this value, the extent of OS disorganization results in clinically significant photoreceptor degeneration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ubiquitination appears to be involved in virus particle release from infected cells. Free ubiquitin (Ub), as well as Ub covalently bound to a small fraction of p6 Gag, is detected in mature HIV particles. Here we report that the p6 region in the Pr55Gag structural precursor polyprotein binds to Tsg101, a putative Ub regulator that is involved in trafficking of plasma membrane-associated proteins. Tsg101 was found to interact with Gag in (i) a yeast two-hybrid assay, (ii) in vitro coimmunoprecipitation by using purified Pr55Gag and rabbit reticulocyte lysate-synthesized Tsg101, and (iii) in vivo in the cytoplasm of COS cells transfected with gag. The PTAPP motif [or late (L) domain] within p6, which is required for release of mature virus from the plasma membrane, was the determinant for binding Pr55Gag. The N-terminal region in Tsg101, which is homologous to the Ubc4 class of Ub-conjugating (E2) enzymes, was the determinant of interaction with p6. Mutation of Tyr-110 in Tsg101, present in place of the active-site Cys that binds Ub in E2 enzymes, and other residues unique to Tsg101, impaired p6 interaction, indicating that features that distinguish Tsg101 from active E2 enzymes were important for binding the viral protein. The results link L-domain function in HIV to the Ub machinery and a specific component of the cellular trafficking apparatus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Kissing interactions in RNA are formed when bases between two hairpin loops pair. Intra- and intermolecular kissing interactions are important in forming the tertiary or quaternary structure of many RNAs. Self-cleavage of the wild-type Varkud satellite (VS) ribozyme requires a kissing interaction between the hairpin loops of stem-loops I and V. In addition, self-cleavage requires a rearrangement of several base pairs at the base of stem I. We show that the kissing interaction is necessary for the secondary structure rearrangement of wild-type stem-loop I. Surprisingly, isolated stem-loop V in the absence of the rest of the ribozyme is sufficient to rearrange the secondary structure of isolated stem-loop I. In contrast to kissing interactions in other RNAs that are either confined to the loops or culminate in an extended intermolecular duplex, the VS kissing interaction causes changes in intramolecular base pairs within the target stem-loop.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ruminant erythrocytes are remarkable for their choline-phospholipid anomalies; namely, low or absent phosphatidylcholine (PC) along with high sphingomyelin levels. Here, we report another anomaly in bovine erythrocytes that affects aminophospholipids: phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) shows an extreme asymmetry, with only 2% of the total present in the outer leaflet. Furthermore, we found that phospholipase A2, an enzyme located on the external surface of the erythrocytes, shows higher activity against PC than against PE. In addition, we observed that acylation of PE is by far the most important biosynthetic event in this system. We propose that deacylation of PE and PC by phospholipase A2 to generate lysocompounds, followed by selective reacylation of lyso-PE in the inner leaflet, can account for the compositional and architectural peculiarities of bovine erythrocyte membranes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The crucial role of cell signaling in hemostasis is clearly established by the action of the downstream coagulation protease thrombin that cleaves platelet-expressed G-protein-coupled protease activated receptors (PARs). Certain PARs are cleaved by the upstream coagulation proteases factor Xa (Xa) and the tissue factor (TF)–factor VIIa (VIIa) complex, but these enzymes are required at high nonphysiological concentrations and show limited recognition specificity for the scissile bond of target PARs. However, defining a physiological mechanism of PAR activation by upstream proteases is highly relevant because of the potent anti-inflammatory in vivo effects of inhibitors of the TF initiation complex. Activation of substrate factor X (X) by the TF–VIIa complex is here shown to produce enhanced cell signaling in comparison to the TF–VIIa complex alone, free Xa, or Xa that is generated in situ by the intrinsic activation complex. Macromolecular assembly of X into a ternary complex of TF–VIIa–X is required for proteolytic conversion to Xa, and product Xa remains transiently associated in a TF–VIIa–Xa complex. By trapping this complex with a unique inhibitor that preserves Xa activity, we directly show that Xa in this ternary complex efficiently activates PAR-1 and -2. These experiments support the concept that proinflammatory upstream coagulation protease signaling is mechanistically coupled and thus an integrated part of the TF–VIIa-initiated coagulation pathway, rather than a late event during excessive activation of coagulation and systemic generation of proteolytic activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recently, Block and coworkers [Visscher, K., Schnitzer, M. J., & Block, S. M. (1999) Nature (London) 400, 184–189 and Schnitzer, M. J., Visscher, K. & Block, S. M. (2000) Nat. Cell Biol. 2, 718–723] have reported extensive observations of individual kinesin molecules moving along microtubules in vitro under controlled loads, F = 1 to 8 pN, with [ATP] = 1 μM to 2 mM. Their measurements of velocity, V, randomness, r, stalling force, and mean run length, L, reveal a need for improved theoretical understanding. We show, presenting explicit formulae that provide a quantitative basis for comparing distinct molecular motors, that their data are satisfactorily described by simple, discrete-state, sequential stochastic models. The simplest (N = 2)-state model with fixed load-distribution factors and kinetic rate constants concordant with stopped-flow experiments, accounts for the global (V, F, L, [ATP]) interdependence and, further, matches relative acceleration observed under assisting loads. The randomness, r(F,[ATP]), is accounted for by a waiting-time distribution, ψ(t), [for the transition(s) following ATP binding] with a width parameter ν ≡ 〈t〉2/〈(Δt)2〉≃2.5, indicative of a dispersive stroke of mechanicity ≃0.6 or of a few (≳ν − 1) further, kinetically coupled states: indeed, N = 4 (but not N = 3) models do well. The analysis reveals: (i) a substep of d0 = 1.8–2.1 nm on ATP binding (consistent with structurally based suggestions); (ii) comparable load dependence for ATP binding and unbinding; (iii) a strong load dependence for reverse hydrolysis and subsequent reverse rates; and (iv) a large (≳50-fold) increase in detachment rate, with a marked load dependence, following ATP binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The molecular reaction mechanism of the GTPase-activating protein (GAP)-catalyzed GTP hydrolysis by Ras was investigated by time resolved Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectroscopy using caged GTP (P3-1-(2-nitro)phenylethyl guanosine 5′-O-triphosphate) as photolabile trigger. This approach provides the complete GTPase reaction pathway with time resolution of milliseconds at the atomic level. Up to now, one structural model of the GAP⋅Ras⋅GDP⋅AlFx transition state analog is known, which represents a “snap shot” along the reaction-pathway. As now revealed, binding of GAP to Ras⋅GTP shifts negative charge from the γ to β phosphate. Such a shift was already identified by FTIR in GTP because of Ras binding and is now shown to be enhanced by GAP binding. Because the charge distribution of the GAP⋅Ras⋅GTP complex thus resembles a more dissociative-like transition state and is more like that in GDP, the activation free energy is reduced. An intermediate is observed on the reaction pathway that appears when the bond between β and γ phosphate is cleaved. In the intermediate, the released Pi is strongly bound to the protein and surprisingly shows bands typical of those seen for phosphorylated enzyme intermediates. All these results provide a mechanistic picture that is different from the intrinsic GTPase reaction of Ras. FTIR analysis reveals the release of Pi from the protein complex as the rate-limiting step for the GAP-catalyzed reaction. The approach presented allows the study not only of single proteins but of protein–protein interactions without intrinsic chromophores, in the non-crystalline state, in real time at the atomic level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Reduced (FeII) Rhodopseudomonas palustris cytochrome c′ (Cyt c′) is more stable toward unfolding ([GuHCl]1/2 = 2.9(1) M) than the oxidized (FeIII) protein ([GuHCl]1/2 = 1.9(1) M). The difference in folding free energies (ΔΔGf° = 70 meV) is less than half of the difference in reduction potentials of the folded protein (100 mV vs. NHE) and a free heme in aqueous solution (≈−150 mV). The spectroscopic features of unfolded FeII–Cyt c′ indicate a low-spin heme that is axially coordinated to methionine sulfur (Met-15 or Met-25). Time-resolved absorption measurements after CO photodissociation from unfolded FeII(CO)–Cyt c′ confirm that methionine can bind to the ferroheme on the microsecond time scale [kobs = 5(2) × 104 s−1]. Protein folding was initiated by photoreduction (two-photon laser excitation of NADH) of unfolded FeIII–Cyt c′ ([GuHCl] = 2.02–2.54 M). Folding kinetics monitored by heme absorption span a wide time range and are highly heterogeneous; there are fast-folding (≈103 s−1), intermediate-folding (102–101 s−1), and slow-folding (10−1 s−1) populations, with the last two likely containing methionine-ligated (Met-15 or Met-25) ferrohemes. Kinetics after photoreduction of unfolded FeIII–Cyt c′ in the presence of CO are attributable to CO binding [1.4(6) × 103 s−1] and FeII(CO)–Cyt c′ folding [2.8(9) s−1] processes; stopped-flow triggered folding of FeIII–Cyt c′ (which does not contain a protein-derived sixth ligand) is adequately described by a single kinetics phase with an estimated folding time constant of ≈4 ms [ΔGf° = −33(3) kJ mol−1] at zero denaturant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alternative models of cell mechanics depict the living cell as a simple mechanical continuum, porous filament gel, tensed cortical membrane, or tensegrity network that maintains a stabilizing prestress through incorporation of discrete structural elements that bear compression. Real-time microscopic analysis of cells containing GFP-labeled microtubules and associated mitochondria revealed that living cells behave like discrete structures composed of an interconnected network of actin microfilaments and microtubules when mechanical stresses are applied to cell surface integrin receptors. Quantitation of cell tractional forces and cellular prestress by using traction force microscopy confirmed that microtubules bear compression and are responsible for a significant portion of the cytoskeletal prestress that determines cell shape stability under conditions in which myosin light chain phosphorylation and intracellular calcium remained unchanged. Quantitative measurements of both static and dynamic mechanical behaviors in cells also were consistent with specific a priori predictions of the tensegrity model. These findings suggest that tensegrity represents a unified model of cell mechanics that may help to explain how mechanical behaviors emerge through collective interactions among different cytoskeletal filaments and extracellular adhesions in living cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Elucidating the mechanism of folding of polynucleotides depends on accurate estimates of free energy surfaces and a quantitative description of the kinetics of structure formation. Here, the kinetics of hairpin formation in single-stranded DNA are measured after a laser temperature jump. The kinetics are modeled as configurational diffusion on a free energy surface obtained from a statistical mechanical description of equilibrium melting profiles. The effective diffusion coefficient is found to be strongly temperature-dependent in the nucleation step as a result of formation of misfolded loops that do not lead to subsequent zipping. This simple system exhibits many of the features predicted from theoretical studies of protein folding, including a funnel-like energy surface with many folding pathways, trapping in misfolded conformations, and non-Arrhenius folding rates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The isotropic 14N-hyperfine coupling constant, a, of nitroxide spin labels is dependent on the local environmental polarity. The dependence of a in fluid phospholipid bilayer membranes on the C-atom position, n, of the nitroxide in the sn-2 chain of a spin-labeled diacyl glycerophospholipid therefore determines the transmembrane polarity profile. The polarity variation in phospholipid membranes, with and without equimolar cholesterol, is characterized by a sigmoidal, trough-like profile of the form {1 + exp [(n − no)/λ]}−1, where n = no is the point of maximum gradient, or polarity midpoint, beyond which the free energy of permeation decreases linearly with n, on a characteristic length-scale, λ. Integration over this profile yields a corresponding expression for the permeability barrier to polar solutes. For fluid membranes without cholesterol, no ≈ 8 and λ ≈ 0.5–1 CH2 units, and the permeability barrier introduces an additional diffusive resistance that is equivalent to increasing the effective membrane thickness by 35–80%, depending on the lipid. For membranes containing equimolar cholesterol, no ≈ 9–10, and the total change in polarity is greater than for membranes without cholesterol, increasing the permeability barrier by a factor of 2, whereas the decay length remains similar. The permeation of oxygen into fluid lipid membranes (determined by spin-label relaxation enhancements) displays a profile similar to that of the transmembrane polarity but of opposite sense. For fluid membranes without cholesterol no ≈ 8 and λ ≈ 1 CH2 units, also for oxygen. The permeation profile for polar paramagnetic ion complexes is closer to a single exponential decay, i.e., no lies outside the acyl-chain region of the membrane. These results are relevant not only to the permeation of water and polar solutes into membranes and their permeabilities, but also to depth determinations of site-specifically spin-labeled protein residues by using paramagnetic relaxation agents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Ser/Thr kinase Raf-1 is a protooncogene product that is a central component in many signaling pathways involved in normal cell growth and oncogenic transformation. Upon activation, Raf-1 phosphorylates mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), which in turn activates mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinases (MAPK/ERKs), leading to the propagation of signals. Depending on specific stimuli and cellular environment, the Raf-1–MEK–ERK cascade regulates diverse cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Here, we describe a MEK–ERK-independent prosurvival function of Raf-1. We found that Raf-1 interacts with the proapoptotic, stress-activated protein kinase ASK1 (apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1) in vitro and in vivo. Deletion analysis localized the Raf-1 binding site to the N-terminal regulatory fragment of ASK1. This interaction allows Raf-1 to act independently of the MEK–ERK pathway to inhibit apoptosis. Furthermore, catalytically inactive forms of Raf-1 can mimic the wild-type effect, raising the possibility of a kinase-independent function of Raf-1. Thus, Raf-1 may promote cell survival through its protein–protein interactions in addition to its established MEK kinase function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
TFII-I is an unusual transcription factor possessing both basal and signal-induced transcriptional functions. Here we report the characterization of a TFII-I-related factor (MusTRD1/BEN) that regulates transcriptional functions of TFII-I by controlling its nuclear residency. MusTRD1/BEN has five or six direct repeats, each containing helix–loop–helix motifs, and, thus, belongs to the TFII-I family of transcription factors. TFII-I and MusTRD1/BEN, when expressed individually, show predominant nuclear localization. However, when the two proteins are coexpressed ectopically, MusTRD1/BEN locates almost exclusively to the nucleus, whereas TFII-I is largely excluded from the nucleus, resulting in a loss of TFII-I-dependent transcriptional activation of the c-fos promoter. Mutation of a consensus nuclear localization signal in MusTRD1/BEN results in a reversal of nuclear residency of the two proteins and a concomitant gain of c-fos promoter activity. These data suggest a means of transcriptional repression by competition at the level of nuclear occupancy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plakophilin 2, a member of the arm-repeat protein family, is a dual location protein that occurs both in the cytoplasmic plaques of desmosomes as an architectural component and in an extractable form in the nucleoplasm. Here we report the existence of two nuclear particles containing plakophilin 2 and the largest subunit of RNA polymerase (pol) III (RPC155), both of which colocalize and are coimmunoselected with other pol III subunits and with the transcription factor TFIIIB. We also show that plakophilin 2 is present in the pol III holoenzyme, but not the core complex, and that it binds specifically to RPC155 in vitro. We propose the existence of diverse nuclear particles in which proteins known as plaque proteins of intercellular junctions are complexed with specific nuclear proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The molecular identification of ion channels in internal membranes has made scant progress compared with the study of plasma membrane ion channels. We investigated a prominent voltage-dependent, cation-selective, and calcium-activated vacuolar ion conductance of 320 pS (yeast vacuolar conductance, YVC1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Here we report on a gene, the deduced product of which possesses significant homology to the ion channel of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family. By using a combination of gene deletion and re-expression with direct patch clamping of the yeast vacuolar membrane, we show that this yeast TRP-like gene is necessary for the YVC1 conductance. In physiological conditions, tens of micromolar cytoplasmic Ca2+ activates the YVC1 current carried by cations including Ca2+ across the vacuolar membrane. Immunodetection of a tagged YVC1 gene product indicates that YVC1 is primarily localized in the vacuole and not other intracellular membranes. Thus we have identified the YVC1 vacuolar/lysosomal cation-channel gene. This report has implications for the function of TRP channels in other organisms and the possible molecular identification of vacuolar/lysosomal ion channels in other eukaryotes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We recently have shown that selective growth of transplanted normal hepatocytes can be achieved in a setting of cell cycle block of endogenous parenchymal cells. Thus, massive proliferation of donor-derived normal hepatocytes was observed in the liver of rats previously given retrorsine (RS), a naturally occurring alkaloid that blocks proliferation of resident liver cells. In the present study, the fate of nodular hepatocytes transplanted into RS-treated or normal syngeneic recipients was followed. The dipeptidyl peptidase type IV-deficient (DPPIV−) rat model for hepatocyte transplantation was used to distinguish donor-derived cells from recipient cells. Hepatocyte nodules were chemically induced in Fischer 344, DPPIV+ rats; livers were then perfused and larger (>5 mm) nodules were separated from surrounding tissue. Cells isolated from either tissue were then injected into normal or RS-treated DPPIV− recipients. One month after transplantation, grossly visible nodules (2–3 mm) were seen in RS-treated recipients transplanted with nodular cells. They grew rapidly, occupying 80–90% of the host liver at 2 months, and progressed to hepatocellular carcinoma within 4 months. By contrast, no liver nodules developed within 6 months when nodular hepatocytes were injected into the liver of recipients not exposed to RS, although small clusters of donor-derived cells were present in these animals. Taken together, these results directly point to a fundamental role played by the host environment in modulating the growth and the progression rate of altered cells during carcinogenesis. In particular, they indicate that conditions associated with growth constraint of the host tissue can drive tumor progression in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Id family of helix–loop–helix (HLH) transcriptional regulatory proteins does not possess a basic DNA-binding domain and functions as a negative regulator of basic HLH transcription factors. Id proteins coordinate cell growth and differentiation pathways within mammalian cells and have been shown to regulate G1-S cell-cycle transitions. Although much recent data has implicated Id1 in playing a critical role in modulating cellular senescence, no direct genetic evidence has been reported to substantiate such work. Here we show that Id1-null primary mouse embryo fibroblasts undergo premature senescence despite normal growth profiles at early passage. These cells possess increased expression of the tumor-suppressor protein p16/Ink4a but not p19/ARF, and have decreased cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) 2 and cdk4 kinase activity. We also show that Id1 is able to directly inhibit p16/Ink4a but not p19/ARF promoter activity via its HLH domain, and that Id1inhibits transcriptional activation at E-boxes within the p16/Ink4a promoter. Our data provide, to our knowledge, the first genetic evidence for a role for Id1 as an inhibitor of cellular senescence and suggest that Id1 functions to delay cellular senescence through repression of p16/Ink4a. Because epigenetic and genetic abrogation of p16/Ink4a function has been implicated in the evolution of several human malignancies, we propose that transcriptional regulation of p16/Ink4a may also provide a mechanism for the dysregulation of normal cellular growth controls during the evolution of human malignancies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sun exposure has been clearly implicated in premature skin aging and neoplastic development. These features are exacerbated in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), a hereditary disease, the biochemical hallmark of which is a severe deficiency in the nucleotide excision repair of UV-induced DNA lesions. To develop an organotypic model of DNA repair deficiency, we have cultured several strains of primary XP keratinocytes and XP fibroblasts from skin biopsies of XP patients. XP skin comprising both a full-thickness epidermis and a dermal equivalent was succesfully reconstructed in vitro. Satisfactory features of stratification were obtained, but the expression of epidermal differentiation products, such as keratin K10 and loricrin, was delayed and reduced. In addition, the proliferation of XP keratinocytes was more rapid than that of normal keratinocytes. Moreover, increased deposition of cell attachment proteins, α-6 and β-1 integrins, was observed in the basement membrane zone, and β-1 integrin subunit, the expression of which is normally confined to basal keratinocytes, extended into several suprabasal cell layers. Most strikingly, the in vitro reconstructed XP skin displayed numerous proliferative epidermal invasions within dermal equivalents. Epidermal invasion and higher proliferation rate are reminiscent of early steps of neoplasia. Compared with normal skin, the DNA repair deficiency of in vitro reconstructed XP skin was documented by long-lasting persistence of UVB-induced DNA damage in all epidermal layers, including the basal layer from which carcinoma develops. The availability of in vitro reconstructed XP skin provides opportunities for research in the fields of photoaging, photocarcinogenesis, and tissue therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amino-terminal signal sequences target nascent secretory and membrane proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum for translocation. Subsequent interactions between the signal sequence and components of the translocation machinery at the endoplasmic reticulum are thought to be important for the productive engagement of the translocon by the ribosome-nascent chain complex. However, it is not clear whether all signal sequences carry out these posttargeting steps identically, or if there are differences in the interactions directed by one signal sequence versus another. In this study, we find substantial differences in the ability of signal sequences from different substrates to mediate closure of the ribosome–translocon junction early in translocation. We also show that these differences in some cases necessitate functional coordination between the signal sequence and mature domain for faithful translocation. Accordingly, the translocation of some proteins is sensitive to replacement of their signal sequences. In a particularly dramatic example, the topology of the prion protein was found to depend highly on the choice of signal sequence used to direct its translocation. Taken together, our results reveal an unanticipated degree of substrate-specific functionality encoded in N-terminal signal sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified a human cytomegalovirus cell-death suppressor, denoted vICA, encoded by the viral UL36 gene. vICA inhibits Fas-mediated apoptosis by binding to the pro-domain of caspase-8 and preventing its activation. vICA does not share significant sequence homology with FLIPs or other known suppressors of apoptosis, suggesting that this protein represents a new class of cell-death suppressors. Notably, resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis is delayed in fibroblasts infected with viruses that encode mutant vICA, suggesting that vICA suppresses death-receptor-induced cell death in the context of viral infection. Although vICA is dispensable for viral replication in vitro, the common targeting of caspase-8 activation by diverse herpesviruses argues for an important role for this antiapoptotic mechanism in the pathogenesis of viral infection in the host, most likely in avoiding immune clearance by cytotoxic lymphocytes and natural killer cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genome of the crenarchaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus P2 contains 2,992,245 bp on a single chromosome and encodes 2,977 proteins and many RNAs. One-third of the encoded proteins have no detectable homologs in other sequenced genomes. Moreover, 40% appear to be archaeal-specific, and only 12% and 2.3% are shared exclusively with bacteria and eukarya, respectively. The genome shows a high level of plasticity with 200 diverse insertion sequence elements, many putative nonautonomous mobile elements, and evidence of integrase-mediated insertion events. There are also long clusters of regularly spaced tandem repeats. Different transfer systems are used for the uptake of inorganic and organic solutes, and a wealth of intracellular and extracellular proteases, sugar, and sulfur metabolizing enzymes are encoded, as well as enzymes of the central metabolic pathways and motility proteins. The major metabolic electron carrier is not NADH as in bacteria and eukarya but probably ferredoxin. The essential components required for DNA replication, DNA repair and recombination, the cell cycle, transcriptional initiation and translation, but not DNA folding, show a strong eukaryal character with many archaeal-specific features. The results illustrate major differences between crenarchaea and euryarchaea, especially for their DNA replication mechanism and cell cycle processes and their translational apparatus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Marrow stromal cells are adult stem cells from bone marrow that can differentiate into multiple nonhematopoietic cell lineages. Previous reports demonstrated that single-cell-derived colonies of marrow stromal cells contained two morphologically distinct cell types: spindle-shaped cells and large flat cells. Here we found that early colonies also contain a third kind of cell: very small round cells that rapidly self-renew. Samples enriched for the small cells had a greater potential for multipotential differentiation than samples enriched for the large cells. Also, the small cells expressed a series of surface epitopes and other proteins that potentially can be used to distinguish the small cells from the large cells. The results suggested it will be important to distinguish the major subpopulations of marrow stromal cells in defining their biology and their potential for cell and gene therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effects of Escherichia coli heat-stable enterotoxin (ST) and uroguanylin were examined on the proliferation of T84 and Caco2 human colon carcinoma cells that express guanylyl cyclase C (GC-C) and SW480 human colon carcinoma cells that do not express this receptor. ST or uroguanylin inhibited proliferation of T84 and Caco2 cells, but not SW480 cells, in a concentration-dependent fashion, assessed by quantifying cell number, cell protein, and [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. These agonists did not inhibit proliferation by induction of apoptosis, assessed by TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dNTP-biotin nick end labeling of DNA fragments) assay and DNA laddering, or necrosis, assessed by trypan blue exclusion and lactate dehydrogenase release. Rather, ST prolonged the cell cycle, assessed by flow cytometry and [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. The cytostatic effects of GC-C agonists were associated with accumulation of intracellular cGMP, mimicked by the cell-permeant analog 8-Br-cGMP, and reproduced and potentiated by the cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast but not the inactive ST analog TJU 1-103. Thus, GC-C agonists regulate the proliferation of intestinal cells through cGMP-dependent mechanisms by delaying progression of the cell cycle. These data suggest that endogenous agonists of GC-C, such as uroguanylin, may play a role in regulating the balance between epithelial proliferation and differentiation in normal intestinal physiology. Therefore, GC-C ligands may be novel therapeutic agents for the treatment of patients with colorectal cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In zebrafish, the organizer is thought to consist of two regions, the yolk syncytial layer (YSL) and the shield. The dorsal YSL appears to send signals that affect formation of the shield in the overlying mesendoderm. We show here that a domain of dorsal deep cells located between the YSL and the shield is marked by expression of the iro3 gene. As gastrulation proceeds, the iro3 positive domain involutes and migrates to the animal pole. Iro3 expression is regulated by Nodal and bone morphogenic protein antagonists. Overexpression of iro3 induced ectopic expression of shield-specific genes. This effect was mimicked by an Iro3-Engrailed transcriptional repressor domain fusion, whereas an Iro3-VP16 activator domain fusion behaved as a dominant negative or antimorphic form. These results suggest that Iro3 acts as a transcriptional repressor and further implicate the iro3 gene in regulating organizer formation. We propose that the iro3-expressing dorsal deep cells represent a distinct organizer domain that receives signals from the YSL and in turn sends signals to the forming shield, thereby influencing its expansion and differentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Extraembryonic ectoderm-derived factors instruct the pluripotent epiblast cells to develop toward a restricted primordial germ cell (PGC) fate during murine gastrulation. Genes encoding Bmp4 of the Dpp class and Bmp8b of the 60A class are expressed in the extraembryonic ectoderm and targeted mutation of either results in severe defects in PGC formation. It has been shown that heterodimers of DPP and 60A classes of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are more potent than each homodimers in bone and mesoderm induction in vitro, suggesting that BMP4 and BMP8B may form heterodimers to induce PGCs. To investigate how BMP4 and BMP8B interact and signal for PGC induction, we cocultured epiblasts of embryonic day 6.0–6.25 embryos with BMP4 and BMP8B proteins produced by COS cells. Our data show that BMP4 or BMP8B homodimers alone cannot induce PGCs whereas they can in combination, providing evidence that two BMP pathways are simultaneously required for the generation of a given cell type in mammals and also providing a prototype method for PGC induction in vitro. Furthermore, the PGC defects of Bmp8b mutants can be rescued by BMP8B homodimers whereas BMP4 homodimers cannot mitigate the PGC defects of Bmp4 null mutants, suggesting that BMP4 proteins are also required for epiblast cells to gain germ-line competency before the synergistic action of BMP4 and BMP8B.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structural proteins of the cytoplasmic intermediate filaments (IFs) arise in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans from eight reported genes and an additional three genes now identified in the complete genome. With the use of double-stranded RNA interference (RNAi) for all 11 C. elegans genes encoding cytoplasmic IF proteins, we observe phenotypes for the five genes A1, A2, A3, B1, and C2. These range from embryonic lethality (B1) and embryonic/larval lethality (A3) to larval lethality (A1 and A2) and a mild dumpy phenotype of adults (C2). Phenotypes A2 and A3 involve displaced body muscles and paralysis. They probably arise by reduction of hypodermal IFs that participate in the transmission of force from the muscle cells to the cuticle. The B1 phenotype has multiple morphogenetic defects, and the A1 phenotype is arrested at the L1 stage. Thus, at least four IF genes are essential for C. elegans development. Their RNAi phenotypes are lethal defects due to silencing of single IF genes. In contrast to C. elegans, no IF genes have been identified in the complete Drosophila genome, posing the question of how Drosophila can compensate for the lack of these proteins, which are essential in mammals and C. elegans. We speculate that the lack of IF proteins in Drosophila can be viewed as cytoskeletal alteration in which, for instance, stable microtubules, often arranged as bundles, substitute for cytoplasmic IFs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amphibian metamorphosis involves extensive, but selective, neuronal death and turnover, thus sharing many features with mammalian postnatal development. The antiapoptotic protein Bcl-XL plays an important role in postnatal mammalian neuronal survival. It is therefore of interest that accumulation of the mRNA encoding the Xenopus Bcl-XL homologue, termed xR11, increases abruptly in the nervous system, but not in other tissues, during metamorphosis in Xenopus tadpoles. This observation raises the intriguing possibility that xR11 selectively regulates neuronal survival during postembryonic development. To investigate this hypothesis, we overexpressed xR11 in vivo as a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-xR11 fusion protein by using somatic and germinal transgenesis. Somatic gene transfer showed that the fusion protein was effective in counteracting, in a dose-dependent manner, the proapoptotic effects of coexpressed Bax. When GFP-xR11 was expressed from the neuronal β-tubulin promoter by germinal transgenesis we observed neuronal specific expression that was maintained throughout metamorphosis and beyond, into juvenile and adult stages. Confocal microscopy showed GFP-xR11 to be exclusively localized in the mitochondria. Our findings show that GFP-xR11 significantly prolonged Rohon-Beard neuron survival up to the climax of metamorphosis, even in the regressing tadpole tail, whereas in controls these neurons disappeared in early metamorphosis. However, GFP-xR11 expression did not modify the fate of spinal cord motoneurons. The selective protection of Rohon-Beard neurons reveals cell-specific apoptotic pathways and offers approaches to further analyze programmed neuronal turnover during postembryonic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nitrous oxide (N2O) is a key atmospheric greenhouse gas that contributes to global climatic change through radiative warming and depletion of stratospheric ozone. In this report, N2O flux was monitored simultaneously with photosynthetic CO2 and O2 exchanges from intact canopies of 12 wheat seedlings. The rates of N2O-N emitted ranged from <2 pmol⋅m−2⋅s−1 when NH was the N source, to 25.6 ± 1.7 pmol⋅m−2⋅s−1 (mean ± SE, n = 13) when the N source was shifted to NO. Such fluxes are among the smallest reported for any trace gas emitted by a higher plant. Leaf N2O emissions were correlated with leaf nitrate assimilation activity, as measured by using the assimilation quotient, the ratio of CO2 assimilated to O2 evolved. 15N isotopic signatures on N2O emitted from leaves supported direct N2O production by plant NO assimilation and not N2O produced by microorganisms on root surfaces and emitted in the transpiration stream. In vitro production of N2O by both intact chloroplasts and nitrite reductase, but not by nitrate reductase, indicated that N2O produced by leaves occurred during photoassimilation of NO in the chloroplast. Given the large quantities of NO assimilated by plants in the terrestrial biosphere, these observations suggest that formation of N2O during NO photoassimilation could be an important global biogenic N2O source.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The fossil record of land plants is an obvious source of information on the dynamics of mass extinctions in the geological past. In conjunction with the end-Permian ecological crisis, ≈250 million years ago, palynological data from East Greenland reveal some unanticipated patterns. We document the significant time lag between terrestrial ecosystem collapse and selective extinction among characteristic Late Permian plants. Furthermore, ecological crisis resulted in an initial increase in plant diversity, instead of a decrease. Paradoxically, these floral patterns correspond to a “dead zone” in the end-Permian faunal record, characterized by a paucity of marine invertebrate megafossils. The time-delayed, end-Permian plant extinctions resemble modeled “extinction debt” responses of multispecies metapopulations to progressive habitat destruction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aposematic signals that warn predators of the noxious qualities of prey gain their greatest selective advantage when predators have already experienced similar signals. Existing theory explains how such signals can spread through selective advantage after they are present at some critical frequency, but is unclear about how warning signals can be selectively advantageous when the trait is initially rare (i.e., when it first arises through mutation) and predators are naive. When aposematism is controlled by a maternal effect gene, the difficulty of initial rarity may be overcome. Unlike a zygotically expressed gene, a maternally expressed aposematism gene will be hidden from selection because it is not phenotypically expressed in the first individual with the mutation. Furthermore, the first individual carrying the new mutation will produce an entire family of aposematic offspring, thereby providing an immediate fitness advantage to this gene.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fossorial salamanders typically have elongate and attenuated heads and bodies, diminutive limbs, hands and feet, and extremely elongate tails. Batrachoseps from California, Lineatriton from eastern México, and Oedipina from southern México to Ecuador, all members of the family Plethodontidae, tribe Bolitoglossini, resemble one another in external morphology, which has evolved independently. Whereas Oedipina and Batrachoseps are elongate because there are more trunk vertebrae, a widespread homoplasy (parallelism) in salamanders, the genus Lineatriton is unique in having evolved convergently by an alternate “giraffe-neck” developmental program. Lineatriton has the same number of trunk vertebrae as related, nonelongated taxa, but individual trunk vertebrae are elongated. A robust phylogenetic hypothesis, based on sequences of three mtDNA genes, finds Lineatriton to be deeply nested within a clade characterized by generalized ecology and morphology. Lineatriton lineolus, the only currently recognized taxon in the genus, shows unanticipated genetic diversity. Surprisingly, geographically separated populations of L. lineolus are not monophyletic, but are sister taxa of different species of the morphologically generalized genus Pseudoeurycea. Lineatriton, long thought to be a unique monospecific lineage, is polyphyletic. Accordingly, the specialized morphology of Lineatriton displays homoplasy at two hierarchical levels: (i) with respect to other elongate lineages in the family (convergence), and (ii) within what is currently recognized as a single taxon (parallelism). These evolutionary events are of adaptive significance because to invade the lowland tropics salamanders must be either arboreal or fossorial; the repeated evolution of elongation and attenuation has led to multiple lowland invasions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A nearly complete skull of Parapithecus grangeri from the early Oligocene of Egypt is described. The specimen is relatively undistorted and is undoubtedly the most complete higher primate skull yet found in the African Oligocene, which also makes it the most complete Oligocene primate cranium worldwide. Belonging in superfamily Parapithecoidea, a group regarded by some as the sister group to all other Anthropoidea, this skull reveals important information about the radiation of stem anthropoideans. This cranium is about 15% larger than size estimates based on a fragmentary cranium of its contemporary and close relative Apidium phiomense. It is about the same size as that of the gray gentle lemur, Hapalemur griseus, or of platyrrhines such as the owl monkey, Aotus trivirgatus, or the titi monkey, Callicebus torquatus. Comparatively small orbits and size differences in jaws and teeth show it was both diurnal and dimorphic. This is the only specimen of the species that shows (from sockets) that there were four small upper incisors. Several mandibular specimens of the species establish that there were no permanent lower incisors and that the symphysis was fused. Like other early anthropoideans this species possessed a lower encephalization quotient and less-developed orbital frontality than later anthropoideans. There is full postorbital closure and fusion of the metopic suture, and the ectotympanic forms a rim to the auditory aperture. A probable frontal/alisphenoid contact is a potentially derived resemblance to Catarrhini. A proposed separate genus for the species P. grangeri is not sustained.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A typical homing endonuclease initiates mobility of its group I intron by recognizing DNA both upstream and downstream of the intron insertion site of intronless alleles, preventing the endonuclease from binding and cleaving its own intron-containing allele. Here, we describe a GIY-YIG family homing endonuclease, I-BmoI, that possesses an unusual recognition sequence, encompassing 1 base pair upstream but 38 base pairs downstream of the intron insertion site. I-BmoI binds intron-containing and intronless substrates with equal affinity but can nevertheless discriminate between the two for cleavage. I-BmoI is encoded by a group I intron that interrupts the thymidylate synthase (TS) gene (thyA) of Bacillus mojavensis s87-18. This intron resembles one inserted 21 nucleotides further downstream in a homologous TS gene (td) of Escherichia coli phage T4. I-TevI, the T4 td intron-encoded GIY-YIG endonuclease, is very similar to I-BmoI, but each endonuclease gene is inserted within a different position of its respective intron. Remarkably, I-TevI and I-BmoI bind a homologous stretch of TS-encoding DNA and cleave their intronless substrates in very similar positions. Our results suggest that each endonuclease has independently evolved the ability to distinguish intron-containing from intronless alleles while maintaining the same conserved recognition sequence centered on DNA-encoding active site residues of TS.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite the benefits of resistance, susceptibility to infectious disease is commonplace. Although specific susceptibility may be considered an inevitable consequence of the co-evolutionary arms race between parasite and host, a more general constraint may arise from the cost of an immune response. This “cost” hypothesis predicts a tradeoff between immune defense and other components of fitness. In particular, a tradeoff between immunity and sexually selected male behavior has been proposed. Here we provide experimental support for the direct phenotypic tradeoff between sexual activity and immunity by studying the antibacterial immune response in Drosophila melanogaster. Males exposed to more females showed a reduced ability to clear a bacterial infection, an effect that we experimentally link to changes in sexual activity. Our results suggest immunosuppression is an important cost of reproduction and that immune function and levels of disease susceptibility will be influenced by sexual selection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cellular attachment receptor for adenovirus (Ad), Coxsackie adenovirus receptor (CAR), required for delivery of Ad into primary cells, is not present on all cell types, thus restricting Ad-gene delivery systems. To circumvent this constrain, a transgenic mouse has been generated that expresses a truncated human CAR in all tissues analyzed. These mice allowed efficient in vitro infections at low multiplicities into lymphoid, myeloid, and endothelial cells. Furthermore, in vivo administration of Ad-vectors results in infection of macrophages, lymphocytes, and endothelial cells. In addition, tail vein injection resulted in targeting of virus into previously inaccessible areas, such as the lung and the capillaries of the brain. The CAR transgenic mice will be useful for rapid functional genomic analysis in vivo, for testing the efficacy of gene therapy procedures or as a source of easily transducible cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hypoxia-inducible factor, a heterodimeric transcription complex, regulates cellular and systemic responses to low oxygen levels (hypoxia) during normal mammalian development or tumor progression. Here, we present evidence that a similar complex mediates response to hypoxia in Caenorhabditis elegans. This complex consists of HIF-1 and AHA-1, which are encoded by C. elegans homologs of the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) α and β subunits, respectively. hif-1 mutants exhibit no severe defects under standard laboratory conditions, but they are unable to adapt to hypoxia. Although wild-type animals can survive and reproduce in 1% oxygen, the majority of hif-1-defective animals die in these conditions. We show that the expression of an HIF-1:green fluorescent protein fusion protein is induced by hypoxia and is subsequently reduced upon reoxygenation. Both hif-1 and aha-1 are expressed in most cell types, and the gene products can be coimmunoprecipitated. We conclude that the mechanisms of hypoxia signaling are likely conserved among metazoans. Additionally, we find that nuclear localization of AHA-1 is disrupted in an hif-1 mutant. This finding suggests that heterodimerization may be a prerequisite for efficient nuclear translocation of AHA-1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hd6 is a quantitative trait locus involved in rice photoperiod sensitivity. It was detected in backcross progeny derived from a cross between the japonica variety Nipponbare and the indica variety Kasalath. To isolate a gene at Hd6, we used a large segregating population for the high-resolution and fine-scale mapping of Hd6 and constructed genomic clone contigs around the Hd6 region. Linkage analysis with P1-derived artificial chromosome clone-derived DNA markers delimited Hd6 to a 26.4-kb genomic region. We identified a gene encoding the α subunit of protein kinase CK2 (CK2α) in this region. The Nipponbare allele of CK2α contains a premature stop codon, and the resulting truncated product is undoubtedly nonfunctional. Genetic complementation analysis revealed that the Kasalath allele of CK2α increases days-to-heading. Map-based cloning with advanced backcross progeny enabled us to identify a gene underlying a quantitative trait locus even though it exhibited a relatively small effect on the phenotype.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microbes whose genomes are encoded by DNA and for which adequate information is available display similar genomic mutation rates (average 0.0034 mutations per chromosome replication, range 0.0025 to 0.0046). However, this value currently is based on only a few well characterized microbes reproducing within a narrow range of environmental conditions. In particular, no genomic mutation rate has been determined either for a microbe whose natural growth conditions may extensively damage DNA or for any member of the archaea, a prokaryotic lineage deeply diverged from both bacteria and eukaryotes. Both of these conditions are met by the extreme thermoacidophile Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. We determined the genomic mutation rate for this species when growing at pH 3.5 and 75°C based on the rate of forward mutation at the pyrE gene and the nucleotide changes identified in 101 independent mutants. The observed value of about 0.0018 extends the range of DNA-based microbes with rates close to the standard rate simultaneously to an archaeon and to an extremophile whose cytoplasmic pH and normal growth temperature greatly accelerate the spontaneous decomposition of DNA. The mutations include base pair substitutions (BPSs) and additions and deletions of various sizes, but the S. acidocaldarius spectrum differs from those of other DNA-based organisms in being relatively poor in BPSs. The paucity of BPSs cannot yet be explained by known properties of DNA replication or repair enzymes of Sulfolobus spp. It suggests, however, that molecular evolution per genome replication may proceed more slowly in S. acidocaldarius than in other DNA-based organisms examined to date.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is reasonable to propose that gene expression profiles of purified stem cells could give clues for the molecular mechanisms of stem cell behavior. We took advantage of cDNA subtraction to identify a set of genes selectively expressed in mouse adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) as opposed to bone marrow (BM). Analysis of HSC-enriched genes revealed several key regulatory gene candidates, including two novel seven transmembrane (7TM) receptors. Furthermore, by using cDNA microarray techniques we found a large set of HSC-enriched genes that are expressed in mouse neurospheres (a population greatly enriched for neural progenitor cells), but not present in terminally differentiated neural cells. In situ hybridization demonstrated that many of them, including one HSC-enriched 7TM receptor, were selectively expressed in the germinal zones of fetal and adult brain, the regions harboring mouse neural stem cells. We propose that at least some of the transcripts that are selectively and commonly expressed in two or more types of stem cells define a functionally conserved group of genes evolved to participate in basic stem cell functions, including stem cell self-renewal.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent work in computational genomics has shown that a functional association between two genes can be derived from the existence of a fusion of the two as one continuous sequence in another genome. For each of 30 completely sequenced microbial genomes, we established all such fusion links among its genes and determined the distribution of links within and among 15 broad functional categories. We found that 72% of all fusion links related genes of the same functional category. A comparison of the distribution of links to simulations on the basis of a random model further confirmed the significance of intracategory fusion links. Where a gene of annotated function is linked to an unclassified gene, the fusion link suggests that the two genes belong to the same functional category. The predictions based on fusion links are shown here for Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum, and another 661 predictions are available at http://fusion.bu.edu.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Atherosclerosis is a complex disease resulting from the interaction of multiple genes. We have used the Ldlr knockout mouse model in an interspecific genetic cross to map atherosclerosis susceptibility loci. A total of 174 (MOLF/Ei × B6.129S7-Ldlrtm1Her) × C57BL/6J-Ldlrtm1Her backcross mice, homozygous for the Ldlr null allele, were fed a Western-type diet for 3 months and then killed for quantification of aortic lesions. A genome scan was carried out by using DNA pools and microsatellite markers spaced at ≈18-centimorgan intervals. Quantitative trait locus analysis of individual backcross mice confirmed linkages to chromosomes 4 (Athsq1, logarithm of odds = 6.2) and 6 (Athsq2, logarithm of odds = 6.7). Athsq1 affected lesions in females only whereas Athsq2 affected both sexes. Among females, the loci accounted for ≈50% of the total variance of lesion area. The susceptible allele at Athsq1 was derived from the MOLF/Ei genome whereas the susceptible allele at Athsq2 was derived from C57BL/6J. Inheritance of susceptible alleles at both loci conferred a 2-fold difference in lesion area, suggesting an additive effect of Athsq1 and Athsq2. No associations were observed between the quantitative trait loci and levels of plasma total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol, insulin, or body weight. We provide strong evidence for complex inheritance of atherosclerosis in mice with elevated plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol and show a major influence of nonlipoprotein-related factors on disease susceptibility. Athsq1 and Athsq2 represent candidate susceptibility loci for human atherosclerosis, most likely residing on chromosomes 1p36–32 and 12p13–12, respectively.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present a general method for rigorously identifying correlations between variations in large-scale molecular profiles and outcomes and apply it to chromosomal comparative genomic hybridization data from a set of 52 breast tumors. We identify two loci where copy number abnormalities are correlated with poor survival outcome (gain at 8q24 and loss at 9q13). We also identify a relationship between abnormalities at two loci and the mutational status of p53. Gain at 8q24 and loss at 5q15-5q21 are linked with mutant p53. The 9q and 5q losses suggest the possibility of gene products involved in breast cancer progression. The analytical techniques are general and also are applicable to the analysis of array-based expression data.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although the protective cellular immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis requires recruitment of macrophages and T lymphocytes to the site of infection, the signals that regulate this trafficking have not been defined. We investigated the role of C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2)-dependent cell recruitment in the protective response to M. tuberculosis. CCR2−/− mice died early after infection and had 100-fold more bacteria in their lungs than did CCR2+/+ mice. CCR2−/− mice exhibited an early defect in macrophage recruitment to the lung and a later defect in recruitment of dendritic cells and T cells to the lung. CCR2−/− mice also had fewer macrophages and dendritic cells recruited to the mediastinal lymph node (MLN) after infection. T cell migration through the MLN was similar in CCR2−/− and CCR2+/+ mice. However, T cell priming was delayed in the MLNs of the CCR2−/− mice, and fewer CD4+ and CD8+ T cells primed to produce IFN-γ accumulated in the lungs of the CCR2−/− mice. These data demonstrate that cellular responses mediated by activation of CCR2 are essential in the initial immune response and control of infection with M. tuberculosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cysteinyl leukotrienes (cys-LTs) LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4 are a class of peptide-conjugated lipids formed from arachidonic acid and released during activation of mast cells (MCs). We now report that human cord-blood-derived MCs (hMCs) express the CysLT1 receptor, which responds not only to inflammation-derived cys-LTs, but also to a pyrimidinergic ligand, UDP. hMCs express both CysLT1 protein and transcript, and respond to LTC4, LTD4, and UDP with concentration-dependent calcium fluxes, each of which is blocked by a competitive CysLT1 receptor antagonist, MK571. Stably transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing the CysLT1 receptor also exhibit MK571-sensitive calcium flux to all three agonists. Both hMCs and CysLT1 transfectants stimulated with UDP are desensitized to LTC4, but only partially to LTD4. Priming of hMCs with IL-4 for 5 days enhances their sensitivity to each agonist, but preferentially lowers their threshold for activation by LTC4 and UDP (≈3 log10-fold shifts in dose-response for each agonist) over LTD4 (1.3 log10-fold shift), without altering CysLT1 receptor mRNA or surface protein expression, implying the likely induction of a second receptor with CysLT1-like dual ligand specificity. hMCs thus express the CysLT1 receptor, and possibly a closely related IL-4-inducible receptor, which mediate dual activation responses to cys-LTs and UDP, providing an apparent intersection linking the inflammatory and neurogenic elements of bronchial asthma.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rearrangements of the high mobility group protein I-C (HMGI-C) gene, consisting in the loss of the carboxyl-terminal tail, have been frequently detected in benign human tumors of mesenchymal origin. We have previously demonstrated that transgenic (TG) mice carrying a truncated HMGI-C construct (HMGI-C/T) exhibit a giant phenotype together with a predominantly abdominal/pelvic lipomatosis. Here, we report that HMGI-C/T TG mice develop natural killer (NK)-T/NK cell lymphomas starting from 12 months of age. We found an increased expression of IL-2 and IL-15 proteins and their receptors in these lymphomas, and we demonstrate that HMGI-C/T protein positively regulates their expression in vitro. Therefore, the HMGI-C/T-mediated chronic stimulation of the IL-2/IL-15 pathway could be responsible for the onset of NK-T/NK cell lymphomas in HMGI-C/T TG mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
High affinity antibodies are generated in mice and humans by means of somatic hypermutation (SHM) of variable (V) regions of Ig genes. Mutations with rates of 10−5–10−3 per base pair per generation, about 106-fold above normal, are targeted primarily at V-region hot spots by unknown mechanisms. We have measured mRNA expression of DNA polymerases ι, η, and ζ by using cultured Burkitt's lymphoma (BL)2 cells. These cells exhibit 5–10-fold increases in heavy-chain V-region mutations targeted only predominantly to RGYW (R = A or G, Y = C or T, W = T or A) hot spots if costimulated with T cells and IgM crosslinking, the presumed in vivo requirements for SHM. An ∼4-fold increase pol ι mRNA occurs within 12 h when cocultured with T cells and surface IgM crosslinking. Induction of pols η and ζ occur with T cells, IgM crosslinking, or both stimuli. The fidelity of pol ι was measured at RGYW hot- and non-hot-spot sequences situated at nicks, gaps, and double-strand breaks. Pol ι formed T⋅G mispairs at a frequency of 10−2, consistent with SHM-generated C to T transitions, with a 3-fold increased error rate in hot- vs. non-hot-spot sequences for the single-nucleotide overhang. The T cell and IgM crosslinking-dependent induction of pol ι at 12 h may indicate an SHM “triggering” event has occurred. However, pols ι, η, and ζ are present under all conditions, suggesting that their presence is not sufficient to generate mutations because both T cell and IgM stimuli are required for SHM induction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ribonucleoprotein telomerase synthesizes telomeric DNA by copying an intrinsic RNA template. In most cancer cells, telomerase is highly activated. Here we report a telomerase-based antitumor strategy: expression of mutant-template telomerase RNAs in human cancer cells. We expressed mutant-template human telomerase RNAs in prostate (LNCaP) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cell lines. Even a low threshold level of expression of telomerase RNA gene constructs containing various mutant templates, but not the control wild-type template, decreased cellular viability and increased apoptosis. This occurred despite the retention of normal levels of the endogenous wild-type telomerase RNA and endogenous wild-type telomerase activity and unaltered stable telomere lengths. In vivo tumor xenografts of a breast cancer cell line expressing a mutant-template telomerase RNA also had decreased growth rates. Therefore, mutant-template telomerase RNAs exert a strongly dominant-negative effect on cell proliferation and tumor growth. These results support the potential use of mutant-template telomerase RNA expression as an antineoplastic strategy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DAX-1 [dosage-sensitive sex reversal, adrenal hypoplasia congenita (AHC) critical region on the X chromosome, gene 1] is an orphan nuclear receptor that represses transcription by steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1), a factor that regulates expression of multiple steroidogenic enzymes and other genes involved in reproduction. Mutations in the human DAX1 gene (also known as AHC) cause the X-linked syndrome AHC, a disorder that is associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism also. Characterization of Dax1-deficient male mice revealed primary testicular defects that included Leydig cell hyperplasia (LCH) and progressive degeneration of the germinal epithelium, leading to infertility. In this study, we investigated the effect of Dax1 disruption on the expression profile of various steroidogenic enzyme genes in Leydig cells isolated from Dax1-deficient male mice. Expression of the aromatase (Cyp19) gene, which encodes the enzyme that converts testosterone to estradiol, was increased significantly in the Leydig cells isolated from mutant mice, whereas the expression of other proteins (e.g., StAR and Cyp11a) was not altered. In in vitro transfection studies, DAX-1 repressed the SF-1-mediated transactivation of the Cyp19 promoter but did not inhibit the StAR or Cyp11a promoters. Elevated Cyp19 expression was accompanied by increased intratesticular levels of estradiol. Administration of tamoxifen, a selective estrogen-receptor modulator, restored fertility to the Dax1-deficient male mice and partially corrected LCH, suggesting that estrogen excess contributes to LCH and infertility. Based on these in vivo and in vitro analyses, aromatase seems to be a physiologic target of Dax-1 in Leydig cells, and increased Cyp19 expression may account, in part, for the infertility and LCH in Dax1-deficient mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Maintenance of female reproductive competence depends on the actions of several hormones and signaling factors. Recent reports suggest roles for bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) in early stages of folliculogenesis. A role for the type I BMP receptor BmprIB as a regulator of ovulation rates in sheep has been described recently, but little is known about the roles of BMP signaling pathways in other aspects of reproductive function. We report here that BMPRIB is essential for multiple aspects of female fertility. Mice deficient in BmprIB exhibit irregular estrous cycles and an impaired pseudopregnancy response. BmprIB mutants produce oocytes that can be fertilized in vitro, but defects in cumulus expansion prevent fertilization in vivo. This defect is associated with decreased levels of aromatase production in granulosa cells. Unexpectedly, levels of mRNA for cyclooxygenase 2, an enzyme required for cumulus expansion, are increased. BmprIB mutants also exhibit a failure in endometrial gland formation. The expression of BmprIB in uterine linings suggests that these defects are a direct consequence of loss of BMP signaling in this tissue. In summary, these studies demonstrate the importance of BMP signaling pathways for estrus cyclicity, estradiol biosynthesis, and cumulus cell expansion in vivo and reveal sites of action for BMP signaling pathways in reproductive tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neutrophils from CCAAT enhancer binding protein epsilon (C/EBPɛ) knockout mice have morphological and biochemical features similar to those observed in patients with an extremely rare congenital disorder called neutrophil-specific secondary granule deficiency (SGD). SGD is characterized by frequent bacterial infections attributed, in part, to the lack of neutrophil secondary granule proteins (SGP). A mutation that results in loss of functional C/EBPɛ activity has recently been described in an SGD patient, and has been postulated to be the cause of the disease in this patient. We have previously demonstrated that overexpression of CCAAT displacement protein (CDP/cut), a highly conserved transcriptional repressor of developmentally regulated genes, suppresses expression of SGP genes in 32Dcl3 cells. This phenotype resembles that observed in both C/EBPɛ−/− mice and in SGD patients. Based on these observations we investigated potential interactions between C/EBPɛ and CDP/cut during neutrophil maturation. In this study, we demonstrate that inducible expression of C/EBPɛ in 32Dcl3/tet cells results in granulocytic differentiation. Furthermore, Northern blot analysis of G-CSF-induced CDP/cut overexpressing 32Dcl3 cells revealed absence of C/EBPɛ mRNA. We therefore hypothesize that C/EBPɛ positively regulates SGP gene expression, and that C/EBPɛ is itself negatively regulated by CDP/cut during neutrophil maturation. We further demonstrate that the C/EBPɛ promoter is regulated by CDP/cut during myeloid differentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
12/15-Lipoxygenase (LOX) activity is elevated in vascular diseases associated with impaired nitric oxide (⋅NO) bioactivity, such as hypertension and atherosclerosis. In this study, primary porcine monocytes expressing 12/15-LOX, rat A10 smooth muscle cells transfected with murine 12/15-LOX, and purified porcine 12/15-LOX all consumed ⋅NO in the presence of lipid substrate. Suppression of LOX diene conjugation by ⋅NO was also found, although the lipid product profile was unchanged. ⋅NO consumption by porcine monocytes was inhibited by the LOX inhibitor, eicosatetraynoic acid. Rates of arachidonate (AA)- or linoleate (LA)-dependent ⋅NO depletion by porcine monocytes (2.68 ± 0.03 nmol ⋅ min−1 ⋅ 106 cells−1 and 1.5 ± 0.25 nmol ⋅ min−1 ⋅ 106 cells−1, respectively) were several-fold greater than rates of ⋅NO generation by cytokine-activated macrophages (0.1–0.2 nmol ⋅ min−1 ⋅ 106 cells−1) and LA-dependent ⋅NO consumption by primary porcine monocytes inhibited ⋅NO activation of soluble guanylate cyclase. These data indicate that catalytic ⋅NO consumption by 12/15-LOX modulates monocyte ⋅NO signaling and suggest that LOXs may contribute to vascular dysfunction not only by the bioactivity of their lipid products, but also by serving as catalytic sinks for ⋅NO in the vasculature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cross-contamination between cell lines is a longstanding and frequent cause of scientific misrepresentation. Estimates from national testing services indicate that up to 36% of cell lines are of a different origin or species to that claimed. To test a standard method of cell line authentication, 253 human cell lines from banks and research institutes worldwide were analyzed by short tandem repeat profiling. The short tandem repeat profile is a simple numerical code that is reproducible between laboratories, is inexpensive, and can provide an international reference standard for every cell line. If DNA profiling of cell lines is accepted and demanded internationally, scientific misrepresentation because of cross-contamination can be largely eliminated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We recently have introduced the term vasculogenic mimicry to describe the unique ability of aggressive melanoma tumor cells to form tubular structures and patterned networks in three-dimensional culture, which “mimics” embryonic vasculogenic networks formed by differentiating endothelial cells. In the current study, we address the biological significance of several endothelial-associated molecules (revealed by microarray analysis) with respect to expression and function in highly aggressive and poorly aggressive human cutaneous melanoma cell lines (established from the same patient). In a comparative analysis, CD31 was not expressed by any of the melanoma cell lines, whereas TIE-1 (tyrosine kinase with Ig and epidermal growth factor homology domains-1) was strongly expressed in the highly aggressive tumor cells with a low level of expression in one of the poorly aggressive cell lines. Vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin was exclusively expressed by highly aggressive melanoma cells and was undetectable in the poorly aggressive tumor cells, suggesting the possibility of a vasculogenic switch. Down-regulation of VE-cadherin expression in the aggressive melanoma cells abrogated their ability to form vasculogenic networks and directly tested the hypothesis that VE-cadherin is critical in melanoma vasculogenic mimicry. These results highlight the plasticity of aggressive melanoma cells and call into question their possible genetic reversion to an embryonic phenotype. This finding could pose a significant clinical challenge in targeting tumor cells that may masquerade as circulating endothelial cells or other embryonic-like stem cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pathological conditions, such as cancers, viral infections, and autoimmune diseases, are associated with abnormal cytokine production, and the morbidity associated with many medical disorders is often directly a result of cytokine production. Because of the absence of negative feedback control occurring in some pathophysiologic situations, a given cytokine may flood and accumulate in the extracellular compartment of tissues or tumors thereby impairing the cytokine network homeostasis and contributing to local pathogenesis. To evaluate whether the rise of anti-cytokine Abs by vaccination is an effective way to treat these pathological conditions without being harmful to the organism, we have analyzed each step of the cytokine process (involving cytokine production, target response, and feedback regulation) and have considered them in the local context of effector–target cell microenvironment and in the overall context of the macroenvironment of the immune system of the organism. In pathologic tissues, Abs of high affinity, as raised by anti-cytokine vaccination, should neutralize the pool of cytokines ectopically accumulated in the extracellular compartment, thus counteracting their pathogenic effects. In contrast, the same Abs should not interfere with cytokine processes occurring in normal tissues, because under physiologic conditions cytokine production by effector cells (induced by activation but controlled by negative feedback regulation) does not accumulate in the extracellular compartment. These concepts are consistent with results showing that following animal and human anti-cytokine vaccination, induction of high-affinity Abs has proven to be safe and effective and encourages this approach as a pioneering avenue of therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The deleterious effect of superoxide radicals on cell growth and survival is predominately caused by rapid oxidation of labile [Fe-S] clusters in proteins. Oxidation of these clusters releases Fe(II) ions, which participate in Fenton chemistry that damages DNA. Here it is shown that elevated levels of the YggX protein increase the resistance of Salmonella enterica to superoxide stress, reverse enzymatic defects attributed to oxidized [Fe-S] clusters, and decrease the spontaneous mutation frequency. The data are consistent with a model in which YggX protects protein [Fe-S] clusters from oxidation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have modified the infectious reovirus RNA system so as to generate a reovirus reverse genetics system. The system consists of (i) the plus strands of nine wild-type reovirus genome segments; (ii) transcripts of the genetically modified cDNA form of the tenth genome segment; and (iii) a cell line transformed so as to express the protein normally encoded by the tenth genome segment. In the work described here, we have generated a serotype 3 reovirus into the S2 double-stranded RNA genome segment of which the CAT gene has been cloned. The virus is stable, replicates in cells that have been transformed (so as to express the S2 gene product, protein σ2), and expresses high levels of CAT activity. This technology can be extended to members of the orbivirus and rotavirus genera. This technology provides a powerful system for basic studies of double-stranded RNA virus replication; a nonpathogenic viral vector that replicates to high titers and could be used for clinical applications; and a system for providing nonselectable viral variants (the result of mutations, insertions, and deletions) that could be valuable for the construction of viral vaccine strains against human and animal pathogens.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many response properties in primary auditory cortex (AI) are segregated spatially and organized topographically as those in primary visual cortex. Intensive study has not revealed an intrinsic, anatomical organizing principle related to an AI functional topography. We used retrograde anatomic tracing and topographic physiologic mapping of acoustic response properties to reveal long-range (≥1.5 mm) convergent intrinsic horizontal connections between AI subregions with similar bandwidth and characteristic frequency selectivity. This suggests a modular organization for processing spectral bandwidth in AI.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The peptide transmitter neurotensin (NT) exerts diverse neurochemical effects that resemble those seen after acute administration of antipsychotic drugs (APDs). These drugs also induce NT expression in the striatum; this and other convergent findings have led to the suggestion that NT may mediate some APD effects. Here, we demonstrate that the ability of the typical APD haloperidol to induce Fos expression in the dorsolateral striatum is markedly attenuated in NT-null mutant mice. The induction of Fos and NT in the dorsolateral striatum in response to typical, but not atypical, APDs has led to the hypothesis that the increased expression of these proteins is mechanistically related to the production of extrapyramidal side effects (EPS). However, we found that catalepsy, which is thought to reflect the EPS of typical APDs, is unaffected in NT-null mutant mice, suggesting that NT does not contribute to the generation of EPS. We conclude that NT is required for haloperidol-elicited activation of a specific population of striatal neurons but not haloperidol-induced catalepsy. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that endogenous NT mediates a specific subset of APD actions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A variety of GTP-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors are expressed at the nerve terminals of central synapses and play modulatory roles in transmitter release. At the calyx of Held, a rat auditory brainstem synapse, activation of presynaptic γ-aminobutyric acid type B receptors (GABAB receptors) or metabotropic glutamate receptors inhibits presynaptic P/Q-type Ca2+ channel currents via activation of G proteins, thereby attenuating transmitter release. To identify the heterotrimeric G protein subunits involved in this presynaptic inhibition, we loaded G protein βγ subunits (Gβγ) directly into the calyceal nerve terminal through whole-cell patch pipettes. Gβγ slowed the activation of presynaptic Ca2+ currents (IpCa) and attenuated its amplitude in a manner similar to the externally applied baclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist. The effects of both Gβγ and baclofen were relieved after strong depolarization of the nerve terminal. In addition, Gβγ partially occluded the inhibitory effect of baclofen on IpCa. In contrast, guanosine 5′-O-(3-thiotriphosphate)-bound Goα loaded into the calyx had no effect. Immunocytochemical examination revealed that the subtype of G proteins Go, but not the Gi, subtype, is expressed in the calyceal nerve terminal. These results suggest that presynaptic inhibition mediated by G protein-coupled receptors occurs primarily by means of the direct interaction of Go βγ subunits with presynaptic Ca2+ channels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Whereas adult sex differences in brain morphology and behavior result from developmental exposure to steroid hormones, the mechanism by which steroids differentiate the brain is unknown. Studies to date have described subtle sex differences in levels of proteins and neurotransmitters during brain development, but these have lacked explanatory power for the profound sex differences induced by steroids. We report here a major divergence in the response to injection of the γ-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) agonist, muscimol, in newborn male and female rats. In females, muscimol treatment primarily decreased the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) within the hypothalamus and the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In contrast, muscimol increased the phosphorylation of CREB in males within these same brain regions. Within the arcuate nucleus, muscimol treatment increased the phosphorylation of CREB in both females and males. Thus, the response to GABA can be excitatory or inhibitory on signal-transduction pathways that alter CREB phosphorylation depending on the sex and the region in developing brain. This divergence in response to GABA allows for a previously unknown form of steroid-mediated neuronal plasticity and may be an initial step in establishing sexually dimorphic signal-transduction pathways in developing brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins of the syntaxin, SNAP-25, and VAMP families mediate intracellular membrane fusion through the formation of helical bundles that span opposing membranes. Soluble SNARE domains that lack their integral membrane anchors inhibit membrane fusion by forming nonfunctional complexes with endogenous SNARE proteins. In this study we investigate the dependence of membrane fusion on the concentration of a soluble SNARE coil domain derived from VAMP2. The increase in the inhibition of fusion observed with increasing concentration of inhibitor is best fit to a function that suggests three SNARE complexes cooperate to mediate fusion of a single vesicle. These three complexes likely contribute part of a protein and lipidic fusion pore.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estrogen regulates hippocampal dendritic spine density and synapse number in an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent manner, and these effects may be of particular importance in the context of age-related changes in endocrine status. We investigated estrogen's effects on axospinous synapse density and the synaptic distribution of the NMDA receptor subunit, NR1, within the context of aging. Although estrogen induced an increase in axospinous synapse density in young animals, it did not alter the synaptic representation of NR1, in that the amount of NR1 per synapse was equivalent across groups. Estrogen replacement in aged female rats failed to increase axospinous synapse density; however, estrogen up-regulated synaptic NR1 compared with aged animals with no estrogen. Therefore, the young and aged hippocampi react differently to estrogen replacement, with the aged animals unable to mount a plasticity response generating additional synapses, yet responsive to estrogen with respect to additional NMDA receptor content per synapse. These findings have important implications for estrogen replacement therapy in the context of aging.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Numerous human and animal studies indirectly implicate neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in the encoding of the affective consequences of nociceptor stimulation. No causal evidence, however, has been put forth linking the ACC specifically to this function. Using a rodent pain assay that combines the hind-paw formalin model with the place-conditioning paradigm, we measured a learned behavior that directly reflects the affective component of pain in the rat (formalin-induced conditioned place avoidance) concomitantly with “acute” formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors (paw lifting, licking, and flinching) that reflect the intensity and localization of the nociceptive stimulus. Destruction of neurons originating from the rostral, but not caudal, ACC reduced formalin-induced conditioned place avoidance without reducing acute pain-related behaviors. These results provide evidence indicating that neurons in the ACC are necessary for the “aversiveness” of nociceptor stimulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The daily rhythm in melatonin levels is controlled by cAMP through actions on the penultimate enzyme in melatonin synthesis, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT; serotonin N-acetyltransferase, EC 2.3.1.87). Results presented here describe a regulatory/binding sequence in AANAT that encodes a cAMP-operated binding switch through which cAMP-regulated protein kinase-catalyzed phosphorylation [RRHTLPAN → RRHpTLPAN] promotes formation of a complex with 14-3-3 proteins. Formation of this AANAT/14-3-3 complex enhances melatonin production by shielding AANAT from dephosphorylation and/or proteolysis and by decreasing the Km for 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin). Similar switches could play a role in cAMP signal transduction in other biological systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The chicken pineal gland contains the autonomous circadian oscillator together with the photic-input pathway. We searched for chicken pineal genes that are induced by light in a time-of-day-dependent manner, and isolated chicken homolog of bZIP transcription factor E4bp4 (cE4bp4) showing high similarity to vrille, one of the Drosophila clock genes. cE4bp4 was expressed rhythmically in the pineal gland with a peak at very early (subjective) night under both 12-h light/12-h dark cycle and constant dark conditions, and the phase was nearly opposite to the expression rhythm of cPer2, a chicken pineal clock gene. Luciferase reporter gene assays showed that cE4BP4 represses cPer2 promoter through a E4BP4-recognition sequence present in the 5′-flanking region, indicating that cE4BP4 can down-regulate the chick pineal cPer2 expression. In vivo light-perturbation studies showed that the prolongation of the light period to early subjective night maintained the high level expression of the pineal cE4bp4, and presumably as a consequence delayed the onset of the induction of the pineal cPer2 expression in the next morning. These light-dependent changes in the mRNA levels of the pineal cE4bp4 and cPer2 were followed by a phase-delay of the subsequent cycles of cE4bp4/cPer2 expression, suggesting that cE4BP4 plays an important role in the phase-delaying process as a light-dependent suppressor of cPer2 gene.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In several biological systems, the electrical coupling of nonoscillating cells generates synchronized membrane potential oscillations. Because the isolated cell is nonoscillating and electrical coupling tends to equalize the membrane potentials of the coupled cells, the mechanism underlying these oscillations is unclear. Here we present a dynamic mechanism by which the electrical coupling of identical nonoscillating cells can generate synchronous membrane potential oscillations. We demonstrate this mechanism by constructing a biologically feasible model of electrically coupled cells, characterized by an excitable membrane and calcium dynamics. We show that strong electrical coupling in this network generates multiple oscillatory states with different spatio-temporal patterns and discuss their possible role in the cooperative computations performed by the system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amnesic patients with early and seemingly isolated hippocampal injury show relatively normal recognition memory scores. The cognitive profile of these patients raises the possibility that this recognition performance is maintained mainly by stimulus familiarity in the absence of recollection of contextual information. Here we report electrophysiological data on the status of recognition memory in one of the patients, Jon. Jon's recognition of studied words lacks the event-related potential (ERP) index of recollection, viz., an increase in the late positive component (500–700 ms), under conditions that elicit it reliably in normal subjects. On the other hand, a decrease of the ERP amplitude between 300 and 500 ms, also reliably found in normal subjects, is well preserved. This so-called N400 effect has been linked to stimulus familiarity in previous ERP studies of recognition memory. In Jon, this link is supported by the finding that his recognized and unrecognized studied words evoked topographically distinct ERP effects in the N400 time window. These data suggest that recollection is more dependent on the hippocampal formation than is familiarity, consistent with the view that the hippocampal formation plays a special role in episodic memory, for which recollection is so critical.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurotrophins can directly modulate the function of diverse types of central nervous system synapses. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) might be released by nociceptors onto spinal neurons and mediate central sensitization associated with chronic pain. We have studied the role of BDNF and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), both ligands of the trkB tyrosine kinase receptor, in synaptic transmission and reflex plasticity in the mouse spinal cord. We used an in vitro spinal cord preparation to measure monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflexes evoked by primary afferents in BDNF- and NT-4-deficient mice. In situ hybridization studies show that both these neurotrophins are synthesized by sensory neurons, and NT-4, but not BDNF, also is expressed by spinal neurons. BDNF null mutants display selective deficits in the ventral root potential (VRP) evoked by stimulating nociceptive primary afferents whereas the non-nociceptive portion of the VRP remained unaltered. In addition, activity-dependent plasticity of the VRP evoked by repetitive (1 Hz) stimulation of nociceptive primary afferents (termed wind-up) was substantially reduced in BDNF-deficient mice. This plasticity also was reduced in a reversible manner by the protein kinase inhibitor K252a. Although the trkB ligand NT-4 is normally present, reflex properties in NT-4 null mutant mice were normal. Pharmacological studies also indicated that spinal N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function was unaltered in BDNF-deficient mice. Using immunocytochemistry for markers of nociceptive neurons we found no evidence that their number or connectivity was substantially altered in BDNF-deficient mice. Our data therefore are consistent with a direct role for presynaptic BDNF release from sensory neurons in the modulation of pain-related neurotransmission.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have evaluated two synthetic epothilone analogues lacking the 12,13-epoxide functionality, 12,13-desoxyepothilone B (dEpoB), and 12,13-desoxyepothilone F (dEpoF). The concentrations required for 50% growth inhibition (IC50) for a variety of anticancer agents were measured in CCRF-CEM/VBL1000 cells (2,048-fold resistance to vinblastine). By using dEpoB, dEpoF, aza-EpoB, and paclitaxel, the IC50 values were 0.029, 0.092, 2.99, and 5.17 μM, respectively. These values represent 4-, 33.5-, 1,423- and 3,133-fold resistance, respectively, when compared with the corresponding IC50 in the parent [nonmultiple drug-resistant (MDR)] CCRF-CEM cells. We then produced MDR human lung carcinoma A549 cells by continuous exposure of the tumor cells to sublethal concentrations of dEpoB (1.8 yr), vinblastine (1.2 yr), and paclitaxel (1.8 yr). This continued exposure led to the development of 2.1-, 4,848-, and 2,553-fold resistance to each drug, respectively. The therapeutic effect of dEpoB and paclitaxel was also compared in vivo in a mouse model by using various tumor xenografts. dEpoB is much more effective in reducing tumor sizes in all MDR tumors tested. Analysis of dEpoF, an analog possessing greater aqueous solubility than dEpoB, showed curative effects similar to dEpoB against K562, CCRF-CEM, and MX-1 xenografts. These results indicate that dEpoB and dEpoF are efficacious antitumor agents with both a broad chemotherapeutic spectrum and wide safety margins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fluid and macromolecule secretion by submucosal glands in mammalian airways is believed to be important in normal airway physiology and in the pathophysiology of cystic fibrosis (CF). An in situ fluorescence method was applied to measure the ionic composition and viscosity of freshly secreted fluid from airway glands. Fragments of human large airways obtained at the time of lung transplantation were mounted in a humidified perfusion chamber and the mucosal surface was covered by a thin layer of oil. Individual droplets of secreted fluid were microinjected with fluorescent indicators for measurement of [Na+], [Cl−], and pH by ratio imaging fluorescence microscopy and viscosity by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching. After carbachol stimulation, 0.1–0.5 μl of fluid accumulated in spherical droplets at gland orifices in ≈3–5 min. In gland fluid from normal human airways, [Na+] was 94 ± 8 mM, [Cl−] was 92 ± 12 mM, and pH was 6.97 ± 0.06 (SE, n = 7 humans, more than five glands studied per sample). Apparent fluid viscosity was 2.7 ± 0.3-fold greater than that of saline. Neither [Na+] nor pH differed in gland fluid from CF airways, but viscosity was significantly elevated by ≈2-fold compared to normal airways. These results represent the first direct measurements of ionic composition and viscosity in uncontaminated human gland secretions and indicate similar [Na+], [Cl−], and pH to that in the airway surface liquid. The elevated gland fluid viscosity in CF may be an important factor promoting bacterial colonization and airway disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The retinas of macaque monkeys usually contain three types of photopigment, providing them with trichromatic color vision homologous to that of humans. However, we recently used molecular genetic analysis to identify several macaques with a dichromatic genotype. The affected X chromosome of these animals contains a hybrid gene of long-wavelength-sensitive (L) and middle-wavelength-sensitive (M) photopigments instead of separate genes encoding L and M photopigments. The product of the hybrid gene exhibits a spectral sensitivity close to that of M photopigment; consequently, male monkeys carrying the hybrid gene are genetic protanopes, effectively lacking L photopigment. In the present study, we assessed retinal expression of L photopigment in monkeys carrying the hybrid gene. The relative sensitivities to middle-wavelength (green) and long-wavelength (red) light were measured by electroretinogram flicker photometry. We found the sensitivity to red light to be extremely low in protanopic male monkeys compared with monkeys with the normal genotype. In female heterozygotes, sensitivity to red light was intermediate between the genetic protanopes and normal monkeys. Decreased sensitivity to long wavelengths was thus consistent with genetic loss of L photopigment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An adenosine diphosphate sugar pyrophosphatase (ASPPase, EC 3.6.1.21) has been characterized by using Escherichia coli. This enzyme, whose activities in the cell are inversely correlated with the intracellular glycogen content and the glucose concentration in the culture medium, hydrolyzes ADP-glucose, the precursor molecule of glycogen biosynthesis. ASPPase was purified to apparent homogeneity (over 3,000-fold), and sequence analyses revealed that it is a member of the ubiquitously distributed group of nucleotide pyrophosphatases designated as “nudix” hydrolases. Insertional mutagenesis experiments leading to the inactivation of the ASPPase encoding gene, aspP, produced cells with marginally low enzymatic activities and higher glycogen content than wild-type bacteria. aspP was cloned into an expression vector and introduced into E. coli. Transformed cells were shown to contain a dramatically reduced amount of glycogen, as compared with the untransformed bacteria. No pleiotropic changes in the bacterial growth occurred in both the aspP-overexpressing and aspP-deficient strains. The overall results pinpoint the reaction catalyzed by ASPPase as a potential step of regulating glycogen biosynthesis in E. coli.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Biotrophic plant pathogenic fungi differentiate specialized infection structures within the living cells of their host plants. These haustoria have been linked to nutrient uptake ever since their discovery. We have for the first time to our knowledge shown that the flow of sugars from the host Vicia faba to the rust fungus Uromyces fabae seems to occur largely through the haustorial complex. One of the most abundantly expressed genes in rust haustoria, the expression of which is negligible in other fungal structures, codes for a hexose transporter. Functional expression of the gene termed HXT1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Xenopus laevis oocytes assigned a substrate specificity for d-glucose and d-fructose and indicated a proton symport mechanism. Abs against HXT1p exclusively labeled haustoria in immunofluorescence microscopy and the haustorial plasma membrane in electron microscopy. These results suggest that the fungus concentrates this transporter in haustoria to take advantage of a specialized compartment of the haustorial complex. The extrahaustorial matrix, delimited by the plasma membranes of both host and parasite, constitutes a newly formed apoplastic compartment with qualities distinct from those of the bulk apoplast. This organization might facilitate the competition of the parasite with natural sink organs of the host.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hydroperoxide lyases (HPLs) catalyze the cleavage of fatty acid hydroperoxides to aldehydes and oxoacids. These volatile aldehydes play a major role in forming the aroma of many plant fruits and flowers. In addition, they have antimicrobial activity in vitro and thus are thought to be involved in the plant defense response against pest and pathogen attack. An HPL activity present in potato leaves has been characterized and shown to cleave specifically 13-hydroperoxides of both linoleic and linolenic acids to yield hexanal and 3-hexenal, respectively, and 12-oxo-dodecenoic acid. A cDNA encoding this HPL has been isolated and used to monitor gene expression in healthy and mechanically damaged potato plants. HPL gene expression is subject to developmental control, being high in young leaves and attenuated in older ones, and it is induced weakly by wounding. HPL enzymatic activity, nevertheless, remains constant in leaves of different ages and also after wounding, suggesting that posttranscriptional mechanisms may regulate its activity levels. Antisense-mediated HPL depletion in transgenic potato plants has identified this enzyme as a major route of 13-fatty acid hydroperoxide degradation in the leaves. Although these transgenic plants have highly reduced levels of both hexanal and 3-hexenal, they show no phenotypic differences compared with wild-type ones, particularly in regard to the expression of wound-induced genes. However, aphids feeding on the HPL-depleted plants display approximately a two-fold increase in fecundity above those feeding on nontransformed plants, consistent with the hypothesis that HPL-derived products have a negative impact on aphid performance. Thus, HPL-catalyzed production of C6 aldehydes may be a key step of a built-in resistance mechanism of plants against some sucking insect pests.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The decrease with age of the adrenal-secreted dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) in serum has suggested that it may be causally related to longevity. For the PAQUID [People (Personnes) Aged (Agées) About What (Quid, in Latin)] cohort of elderly subjects, we have previously reported higher DHEAS in men than in women, a decrease with age and, among men, a negative correlation between the DHEAS level and mortality at 2 and 4 years. Here, with an 8-year followup in 290 subjects, we show a global decrease of 2.3% per year for men and 3.9% per year for women. However, in approximately 30% of cases, there was an increase of DHEAS. We observed no relationship between the evolution of DHEAS level and functional, psychological, and mental status, possibly because of selection by death. In women, no association was found between mortality and DHEAS level. In men, the relative risk (RR) of death was higher for the lowest levels of DHEAS (RR = 1.9, P = 0.007), with RR = 6.5, P = 0.003 for those under 70 years old, a result indicating heterogeneity of the population. There was an effect of subjective health on mortality that disappeared after adjustment of DHEAS levels, suggesting its relation with these DHEAS levels. Death RR was much higher in smokers with a low DHEAS level than in nonsmokers with high DHEAS (RR = 6.7, P = 0.001). We submit that the involvement of DHEAS is possibly different according to gender, that association between low DHEAS level and mortality only for men under 70 years old possibly reflects heterogeneity of the population, and that DHEAS level is a reliable predictor of death in male smokers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
For several decades, research into the mechanisms of genetic recombination proceeded without a complete understanding of its cellular function or its place in DNA metabolism. Many lines of research recently have coalesced to reveal a thorough integration of most aspects of DNA metabolism, including recombination. In bacteria, the primary function of homologous genetic recombination is the repair of stalled or collapsed replication forks. Recombinational DNA repair of replication forks is a surprisingly common process, even under normal growth conditions. The new results feature multiple pathways for repair and the involvement of many enzymatic systems. The long-recognized integration of replication and recombination in the DNA metabolism of bacteriophage T4 has moved into the spotlight with its clear mechanistic precedents. In eukaryotes, a similar integration of replication and recombination is seen in meiotic recombination as well as in the repair of replication forks and double-strand breaks generated by environmental abuse. Basic mechanisms for replication fork repair can now inform continued research into other aspects of recombination. This overview attempts to trace the history of the search for recombination function in bacteria and their bacteriophages, as well as some of the parallel paths taken in eukaryotic recombination research.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA synthesis is an accurate and very processive phenomenon; nevertheless, replication fork progression on chromosomes can be impeded by DNA lesions, DNA secondary structures, or DNA-bound proteins. Elements interfering with the progression of replication forks have been reported to induce rearrangements and/or render homologous recombination essential for viability, in all organisms from bacteria to human. Arrested replication forks may be the target of nucleases, thereby providing a substrate for double-strand break repair enzyme. For example in bacteria, direct fork breakage was proposed to occur at replication forks blocked by a bona fide replication terminator sequence, a specific site that arrests bacterial chromosome replication. Alternatively, an arrested replication fork may be transformed into a recombination substrate by reversal of the forked structures. In reversed forks, the last duplicated portions of the template strands reanneal, allowing the newly synthesized strands to pair. In bacteria, this reaction was proposed to occur in replication mutants, in which fork arrest is caused by a defect in a replication protein, and in UV irradiated cells. Recent studies suggest that it may also occur in eukaryote organisms. We will review here observations that link replication hindrance with DNA rearrangements and the possible underlying molecular processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Crossing over by homologous recombination between monomeric circular chromosomes generates dimeric circular chromosomes that cannot be segregated to daughter cells during cell division. In Escherichia coli, homologous recombination is biased so that most homologous recombination events generate noncrossover monomeric circular chromosomes. This bias is lost in ruv mutants. A novel protein, RarA, which is highly conserved in eubacteria and eukaryotes and is related to the RuvB and the DnaX proteins, γ and τ, may influence the formation of crossover recombinants. Those dimeric chromosomes that do form are converted to monomers by Xer site-specific recombination at the recombination site dif, located in the replication terminus region of the E. coli chromosome. The septum-located FtsK protein, which coordinates cell division with chromosome segregation, is required for a complete Xer recombination reaction at dif. Only correctly positioned dif sites present in a chromosomal dimer are able to access septum-located FtsK. FtsK acts by facilitating a conformational change in the Xer recombination Holliday junction intermediate formed by XerC recombinase. This change provides a substrate for XerD, which then completes the recombination reaction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alternative reproductive cycles make use of different strategies to generate different reproductive products. In Escherichia coli, recA and several other rec genes are required for the generation of recombinant genomes during Hfr conjugation. During normal asexual reproduction, many of these same genes are needed to generate clonal products from UV-irradiated cells. However, unlike conjugation, this latter process also requires the function of the nucleotide excision repair genes. Following UV irradiation, the recovery of DNA replication requires uvrA and uvrC, as well as recA, recF, and recR. The rec genes appear to be required to protect and maintain replication forks that are arrested at DNA lesions, based on the extensive degradation of the nascent DNA that occurs in their absence. The products of the recJ and recQ genes process the blocked replication forks before the resumption of replication and may affect the fidelity of the recovery process. We discuss a model in which several rec gene products process replication forks arrested by DNA damage to facilitate the repair of the blocking DNA lesions by nucleotide excision repair, thereby allowing processive replication to resume with no need for strand exchanges or recombination. The poor survival of cellular populations that depend on recombinational pathways (compared with that in their excision repair proficient counterparts) suggests that at least some of the rec genes may be designed to function together with nucleotide excision repair in a common and predominant pathway by which cells faithfully recover replication and survive following UV-induced DNA damage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recombinational repair of replication forks can occur either to a crossover (XO) or noncrossover (non-XO) depending on Holliday junction resolution. Once the fork is repaired by recombination, PriA is important for restarting these forks in Escherichia coli. PriA mutants are Rec− and UV sensitive and have poor viability and 10-fold elevated basal levels of SOS expression. PriA sulB mutant cells and their nucleoids were studied by differential interference contrast and fluorescence microscopy of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole-stained log phase cells. Two populations of cells were seen. Eighty four percent appeared like wild type, and 16% of the cells were filamented and had poorly partitioned chromosomes (Par−). To probe potential mechanisms leading to the two populations of cells, mutations were added to the priA sulB mutant. Mutating sulA or introducing lexA3 decreased, but did not eliminate filamentation or defects in partitioning. Mutating either recA or recB virtually eliminated the Par− phenotype. Filamentation in the recB mutant decreased to 3%, but increased to 28% in the recA mutant. The ability to resolve and/or branch migrate Holliday junctions also appeared crucial in the priA mutant because removing either recG or ruvC was lethal. Lastly, it was tested whether the ability to resolve chromosome dimers caused by XOs was important in a priA mutant by mutating dif and the C-terminal portion of ftsK. Mutation of dif showed no change in phenotype whereas ftsK1∷cat was lethal with priA2∷kan. A model is proposed where the PriA-independent pathway of replication restart functions at forks that have been repaired to non-XOs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Replication forks are halted by many types of DNA damage. At the site of a leading-strand DNA lesion, forks may stall and leave the lesion in a single-strand gap. Fork regression is the first step in several proposed pathways that permit repair without generating a double-strand break. Using model DNA substrates designed to mimic one of the known structures of a fork stalled at a leading-strand lesion, we show here that RecA protein of Escherichia coli will promote a fork regression reaction in vitro. The regression process exhibits an absolute requirement for ATP hydrolysis and is enhanced when dATP replaces ATP. The reaction is not affected by the inclusion of the RecO and R proteins. We present this reaction as one of several potential RecA protein roles in the repair of stalled and/or collapsed replication forks in bacteria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The unwinding of the parental DNA duplex during replication causes a positive linking number difference, or superhelical strain, to build up around the elongating replication fork. The branching at the fork and this strain bring about different conformations from that of (−) supercoiled DNA that is not being replicated. The replicating DNA can form (+) precatenanes, in which the daughter DNAs are intertwined, and (+) supercoils. Topoisomerases have the essential role of relieving the superhelical strain by removing these structures. Stalled replication forks of molecules with a (+) superhelical strain have the additional option of regressing, forming a four-way junction at the replication fork. This four-way junction can be acted on by recombination enzymes to restart replication. Replication and chromosome folding are made easier by topological domain barriers, which sequester the substrates for topoisomerases into defined and concentrated regions. Domain barriers also allow replicated DNA to be (−) supercoiled. We discuss the importance of replicating DNA conformations and the roles of topoisomerases, focusing on recent work from our laboratory.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Modification of damaged replication forks is emerging as a crucial factor for efficient chromosomal duplication and the avoidance of genetic instability. The RecG helicase of Escherichia coli, which is involved in recombination and DNA repair, has been postulated to act on stalled replication forks to promote replication restart via the formation of a four-stranded (Holliday) junction. Here we show that RecG can actively unwind the leading and lagging strand arms of model replication fork structures in vitro. Unwinding is achieved in each case by simultaneous interaction with and translocation along both the leading and lagging strand templates at a fork. Disruption of either of these interactions dramatically inhibits unwinding of the opposing duplex arm. Thus, RecG translocates simultaneously along two DNA strands, one with 5′-3′ and the other with 3′-5′ polarity. The unwinding of both nascent strands at a damaged fork, and their subsequent annealing to form a Holliday junction, may explain the ability of RecG to promote replication restart. Moreover, the preferential binding of partial forks lacking a leading strand suggests that RecG may have the ability to target stalled replication intermediates in vivo in which lagging strand synthesis has continued beyond the leading strand.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Replication forks formed at bacterial origins often encounter template roadblocks in the form of DNA adducts and frozen protein–DNA complexes, leading to replication-fork stalling and inactivation. Subsequent correction of the corrupting template lesion and origin-independent assembly of a new replisome therefore are required for survival of the bacterium. A number of models for replication-fork restart under these conditions posit that nascent strand regression at the stalled fork generates a Holliday junction that is a substrate for subsequent processing by recombination and repair enzymes. We show here that early replication intermediates containing replication forks stalled in vitro by the accumulation of excess positive supercoils could be cleaved by the Holliday junction resolvases RusA and RuvC. Cleavage by RusA was inhibited by the presence of RuvA and was stimulated by RecG, confirming the presence of Holliday junctions in the replication intermediate and supporting the previous proposal that RecG could catalyze nascent strand regression at stalled replication forks. Furthermore, RecG promoted Holliday junction formation when replication intermediates in which the replisome had been inactivated were negatively supercoiled, suggesting that under intracellular conditions, the action of RecG, or helicases with similar activities, is necessary for the catalysis of nascent strand regression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Replication-dependent chromosomal breakage suggests that replication forks occasionally run into nicks in template DNA and collapse, generating double-strand ends. To model replication fork collapse in vivo, I constructed phage λ chromosomes carrying the nicking site of M13 bacteriophage and infected with these substrates Escherichia coli cells, producing M13 nicking enzyme. I detected double-strand breaks at the nicking sites in λ DNA purified from these cells. The double-strand breakage depends on (i) the presence of the nicking site; (ii) the production of the nicking enzyme; and (iii) replication of the nick-containing chromosome. Replication fork collapse at nicks in template DNA explains diverse phenomena, including eukaryotic cell killing by DNA topoisomerase inhibitors and inviability of recombination-deficient vertebrate cell lines.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bacteriophage Mu replicates as a transposable element, exploiting host enzymes to promote initiation of DNA synthesis. The phage-encoded transposase MuA, assembled into an oligomeric transpososome, promotes transfer of Mu ends to target DNA, creating a fork at each end, and then remains tightly bound to both forks. In the transition to DNA synthesis, the molecular chaperone ClpX acts first to weaken the transpososome's interaction with DNA, apparently activating its function as a molecular matchmaker. This activated transpososome promotes formation of a new nucleoprotein complex (prereplisome) by yet unidentified host factors [Mu replication factors (MRFα2)], which displace the transpososome in an ATP-dependent reaction. Primosome assembly proteins PriA, PriB, DnaT, and the DnaB–DnaC complex then promote the binding of the replicative helicase DnaB on the lagging strand template of the Mu fork. PriA helicase plays an important role in opening the DNA duplex for DnaB binding, which leads to assembly of DNA polymerase III holoenzyme to form the replisome. The MRFα2 transition factors, assembled into a prereplisome, not only protect the fork from action by nonspecific host enzymes but also appear to aid in replisome assembly by helping to activate PriA's helicase activity. They consist of at least two separable components, one heat stable and the other heat labile. Although the MRFα2 components are apparently not encoded by currently known homologous recombination genes such as recA, recF, recO, and recR, they may fulfill an important function in assembling replisomes on arrested replication forks and products of homologous strand exchange.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Break-induced replication (BIR) is a nonreciprocal recombination-dependent replication process that is an effective mechanism to repair a broken chromosome. We review key roles played by BIR in maintaining genome integrity, including restarting DNA replication at broken replication forks and maintaining telomeres in the absence of telomerase. Previous studies suggested that gene targeting does not occur by simple crossings-over between ends of the linearized transforming fragment and the target chromosome, but involves extensive new DNA synthesis resembling BIR. We examined gene targeting in Saccharomyces cerevisiae where only one end of the transformed DNA has homology to chromosomal sequences. Linearized, centromere-containing plasmid DNA with the 5′ end of the LEU2 gene at one end was transformed into a strain in which the 5′ end of LEU2 was replaced by ADE1, preventing simple homologous gene replacement to become Leu2+. Ade1+ Leu2+ transformants were recovered in which the entire LEU2 gene and as much as 7 kb of additional sequences were found on the plasmid, joined by microhomologies characteristic of nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ). In other experiments, cells were transformed with DNA fragments lacking an ARS and homologous to only 50 bp of ADE2 added to the ends of a URA3 gene. Autonomously replicating circles were recovered, containing URA3 and as much as 8 kb of ADE2-adjacent sequences, including a nearby ARS, copied from chromosomal DNA. Thus, the end of a linearized DNA fragment can initiate new DNA synthesis by BIR in which the newly synthesized DNA is displaced and subsequently forms circles by NHEJ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The RAD27 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a 5′-3′ flap exo/endonuclease, which plays an important role during DNA replication for Okazaki fragment maturation. Genetic studies have shown that RAD27 is not essential for growth, although rad27Δ mutants are temperature sensitive. Moreover, they exhibit increased sensitivity to alkylating agents, enhanced spontaneous recombination, and repetitive DNA instability. The conditional lethality conferred by the rad27Δ mutation indicates that other nuclease(s) can compensate for the absence of Rad27. Indeed, biochemical and genetical analyses indicate that Okazaki fragment processing can be assured by other enzymatic activities or by alternative pathways such as homologous recombination. Here we present the results of a screen that makes use of a synthetic lethality assay to identify functions required for the survival of rad27Δ strains. Altogether, we confirm that all genes of the Rad52 recombinational repair pathway are required for the survival of rad27Δ strains at both permissive (23°C) and semipermissive (30°C) temperatures for growth. We also find that several point mutations that confer weaker phenotypes in mitotic than in meiotic cells (rad50S, mre11s) and additional gene deletions (com1/sae2, srs2) exhibit synthetic lethality with rad27Δ and that rad59Δ exhibits synergistic effects with rad27Δ. This and previous studies indicate that homologous recombination is the primary, but not only, pathway that functions to bypass the replication defects that arise in the absence of the Rad27 protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Accurate chromosome segregation requires that replicated sister chromatids are held together until anaphase, when their “cohesion” is dissolved, and they are pulled to opposite spindle poles by microtubules. Establishment of new cohesion between sister chromatids in the next cell cycle is coincident with replication fork passage. Emerging evidence suggests that this temporal coupling is not just a coincident timing of independent events, but rather that the establishment of cohesion is likely to involve the active participation of replication-related activities. These include PCNA, a processivity clamp for some DNA polymerases, Trf4/Pol σ (formerly Trf4/Polκ), a novel and essential DNA polymerase, and a modified Replication Factor C clamp–loader complex. Here we describe recent advances in how cohesion establishment is linked to replication, highlight important unanswered questions in this new field, and describe a “polymerase switch” model for how cohesion establishment is coupled to replication fork progression. Building the bridges between newly synthesized sister chromatids appears to be a fundamental but previously unrecognized function of the eukaryotic replication machinery.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Maintenance of genomic integrity and stable transmission of genetic
 information depend on a number of DNA repair processes. Failure to
 faithfully perform these processes can result in genetic alterations
 and subsequent development of cancer and other genetic diseases. In the
 eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae, homologous
 recombination is the major pathway for repairing DNA double-strand
 breaks. The key role played by Rad52 in this pathway has been
 attributed to its ability to seek out and mediate annealing of
 homologous DNA strands. In this study, we find that S.
 cerevisiae Rad52 fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) is
 fully functional in DNA repair and recombination. After induction of
 DNA double-strand breaks by γ-irradiation, meiosis, or
 the HO endonuclease, Rad52-GFP relocalizes from a
 diffuse nuclear distribution to distinct foci. Interestingly, Rad52
 foci are formed almost exclusively during the S phase of mitotic cells,
 consistent with coordination between recombinational repair and DNA
 replication. This notion is further strengthened by the dramatic
 increase in the frequency of Rad52 focus formation observed in a
 pol12-100 replication mutant and a
 mec1 DNA damage checkpoint mutant. Furthermore, our data
 indicate that each Rad52 focus represents a center of recombinational
 repair capable of processing multiple DNA lesions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Changes in DNA superhelicity during DNA replication are mediated primarily by the activities of DNA helicases and topoisomerases. If these activities are defective, the progression of the replication fork can be hindered or blocked, which can lead to double-strand breaks, elevated recombination in regions of repeated DNA, and genome instability. Hereditary diseases like Werner's and Bloom's Syndromes are caused by defects in DNA helicases, and these diseases are associated with genome instability and carcinogenesis in humans. Here we report a Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene, MGS1 (Maintenance of Genome Stability 1), which encodes a protein belonging to the AAA+ class of ATPases, and whose central region is similar to Escherichia coli RuvB, a Holliday junction branch migration motor protein. The Mgs1 orthologues are highly conserved in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The Mgs1 protein possesses DNA-dependent ATPase and single-strand DNA annealing activities. An mgs1 deletion mutant has an elevated rate of mitotic recombination, which causes genome instability. The mgs1 mutation is synergistic with a mutation in top3 (encoding topoisomerase III), and the double mutant exhibits severe growth defects and markedly increased genome instability. In contrast to the mgs1 mutation, a mutation in the sgs1 gene encoding a DNA helicase homologous to the Werner and Bloom helicases suppresses both the growth defect and the increased genome instability of the top3 mutant. Therefore, evolutionarily conserved Mgs1 may play a role together with RecQ family helicases and DNA topoisomerases in maintaining proper DNA topology, which is essential for genome stability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Double-strand break (DSB) repair and DNA replication are tightly linked in the life cycle of bacteriophage T4. Indeed, the major mode of phage DNA replication depends on recombination proteins and can be stimulated by DSBs. DSB-stimulated DNA replication is dramatically demonstrated when T4 infects cells carrying two plasmids that share homology. A DSB on one plasmid triggered extensive replication of the second plasmid, providing a useful model for T4 recombination-dependent replication (RDR). This system also provides a view of DSB repair in T4-infected cells and revealed that the DSB repair products had been replicated in their entirety by the T4 replication machinery. We analyzed the detailed structure of these products, which do not fit the simple predictions of any of three models for DSB repair. We also present evidence that the T4 RDR system functions to restart stalled or inactivated replication forks. First, we review experiments involving antitumor drug-stabilized topoisomerase cleavage complexes. The results suggest that forks blocked at cleavage complexes are resolved by recombinational repair, likely involving RDR. Second, we show here that the presence of a T4 replication origin on one plasmid substantially stimulated recombination events between it and a homologous second plasmid that did not contain a T4 origin. Furthermore, replication of the second plasmid was increased when the first plasmid contained the T4 origin. Our interpretation is that origin-initiated forks become inactivated at some frequency during replication of the first plasmid and are then restarted via RDR on the second plasmid.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Studies of recombination-dependent replication (RDR) in the T4 system have revealed the critical roles played by mediator proteins in the timely and productive loading of specific enzymes onto single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) during phage RDR processes. The T4 recombination mediator protein, uvsY, is necessary for the proper assembly of the T4 presynaptic filament (uvsX recombinase cooperatively bound to ssDNA), leading to the recombination-primed initiation of leading strand DNA synthesis. In the lagging strand synthesis component of RDR, replication mediator protein gp59 is required for the assembly of gp41, the DNA helicase component of the T4 primosome, onto lagging strand ssDNA. Together, uvsY and gp59 mediate the productive coupling of homologous recombination events to the initiation of T4 RDR. UvsY promotes presynaptic filament formation on 3′ ssDNA-tailed chromosomes, the physiological primers for T4 RDR, and recent results suggest that uvsY also may serve as a coupling factor between presynapsis and the nucleolytic resection of double-stranded DNA ends. Other results indicate that uvsY stabilizes uvsX bound to the invading strand, effectively preventing primosome assembly there. Instead, gp59 directs primosome assembly to the displaced strand of the D loop/replication fork. This partitioning mechanism enforced by the T4 recombination/replication mediator proteins guards against antirecombination activity of the helicase component and ensures that recombination intermediates formed by uvsX/uvsY will efficiently be converted into semiconservative DNA replication forks. Although the major mode of T4 RDR is semiconservative, we present biochemical evidence that a conservative “bubble migration” mode of RDR could play a role in lesion bypass by the T4 replication machinery.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two major pathways of recombination-dependent DNA replication, “join-copy” and “join-cut-copy,” can be distinguished in phage T4: join-copy requires only early and middle genes, but two late proteins, endonuclease VII and terminase, are uniquely important in the join-cut-copy pathway. In wild-type T4, timing of these pathways is integrated with the developmental program and related to transcription and packaging of DNA. In primase mutants, which are defective in origin-dependent lagging-strand DNA synthesis, the late pathway can bypass the lack of primers for lagging-strand DNA synthesis. The exquisitely regulated synthesis of endo VII, and of two proteins from its gene, explains the delay of recombination-dependent DNA replication in primase (as well as topoisomerase) mutants, and the temperature-dependence of the delay. Other proteins (e.g., the single-stranded DNA binding protein and the products of genes 46 and 47) are important in all recombination pathways, but they interact differently with other proteins in different pathways. These homologous recombination pathways contribute to evolution because they facilitate acquisition of any foreign DNA with limited sequence homology during horizontal gene transfer, without requiring transposition or site-specific recombination functions. Partial heteroduplex repair can generate what appears to be multiple mutations from a single recombinational intermediate. The resulting sequence divergence generates barriers to formation of viable recombinants. The multiple sequence changes can also lead to erroneous estimates in phylogenetic analyses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bacteriophage T4 uses two modes of replication initiation: origin-dependent replication early in infection and recombination-dependent replication at later times. The same relatively simple complex of T4 replication proteins is responsible for both modes of DNA synthesis. Thus the mechanism for loading the T4 41 helicase must be versatile enough to allow it to be loaded on R loops created by transcription at several origins, on D loops created by recombination, and on stalled replication forks. T4 59 helicase-loading protein is a small, basic, almost completely α-helical protein whose N-terminal domain has structural similarity to high mobility group family proteins. In this paper we review recent evidence that 59 protein recognizes specific structures rather than specific sequences. It binds and loads the helicase on replication forks and on three- and four-stranded (Holliday junction) recombination structures, without sequence specificity. We summarize our experiments showing that purified T4 enzymes catalyze complete unidirectional replication of a plasmid containing the T4 ori(uvsY) origin, with a preformed R loop at the position of the R loop identified at this origin in vivo. This replication depends on the 41 helicase and is strongly stimulated by 59 protein. Moreover, the helicase-loading protein helps to coordinate leading and lagging strand synthesis by blocking replication on the ori(uvsY) R loop plasmid until the helicase is loaded. The T4 enzymes also can replicate plasmids with R loops that do not have a T4 origin sequence, but only if the R loops are within an easily unwound DNA sequence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rearrangements between tandem sequence homologies of various lengths are a major source of genomic change and can be deleterious to the organism. These rearrangements can result in either deletion or duplication of genetic material flanked by direct sequence repeats. Molecular genetic analysis of repetitive sequence instability in Escherichia coli has provided several clues to the underlying mechanisms of these rearrangements. We present evidence for three mechanisms of RecA-independent sequence rearrangements: simple replication slippage, sister-chromosome exchange-associated slippage, and single-strand annealing. We discuss the constraints of these mechanisms and contrast their properties with RecA-dependent homologous recombination. Replication plays a critical role in the two slipped misalignment mechanisms, and difficulties in replication appear to trigger rearrangements via all these mechanisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic instability can be induced by unusual DNA structures and sequence repeats. We have previously demonstrated that a large palindrome in the mouse germ line derived from transgene integration is extremely unstable and undergoes stabilizing rearrangements at high frequency, often through deletions that produce asymmetry. We have now characterized other palindrome rearrangements that arise from complex homologous recombination events. The structure of the recombinants is consistent with homologous recombination occurring by a noncrossover gene conversion mechanism in which a break induced in the palindrome promotes homologous strand invasion and repair synthesis, similar to mitotic break repair events reported in mammalian cells. Some of the homologous recombination events led to expansion in the size of the palindromic locus, which in the extreme case more than doubled the number of repeats. These results may have implications for instability observed at naturally occurring palindromic or quasipalindromic sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several microbial systems have been shown to yield advantageous mutations in slowly growing or nongrowing cultures. In one assay system, the stationary-phase mutation mechanism differs from growth-dependent mutation, demonstrating that the two are different processes. This system assays reversion of a lac frameshift allele on an F′ plasmid in Escherichia coli. The stationary-phase mutation mechanism at lac requires recombination proteins of the RecBCD double-strand-break repair system and the inducible error-prone DNA polymerase IV, and the mutations are mostly −1 deletions in small mononucleotide repeats. This mutation mechanism is proposed to occur by DNA polymerase errors made during replication primed by recombinational double-strand-break repair. It has been suggested that this mechanism is confined to the F plasmid. However, the cells that acquire the adaptive mutations show hypermutation of unrelated chromosomal genes, suggesting that chromosomal sites also might experience recombination protein-dependent stationary-phase mutation. Here we test directly whether the stationary-phase mutations in the bacterial chromosome also occur via a recombination protein- and pol IV-dependent mechanism. We describe an assay for chromosomal mutation in cells carrying the F′ lac. We show that the chromosomal mutation is recombination protein- and pol IV-dependent and also is associated with general hypermutation. The data indicate that, at least in these male cells, recombination protein-dependent stationary-phase mutation is a mechanism of general inducible genetic change capable of affecting genes in the bacterial chromosome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two important and timely questions with respect to DNA replication, DNA recombination, and DNA repair are: (i) what controls which DNA polymerase gains access to a particular primer-terminus, and (ii) what determines whether a DNA polymerase hands off its DNA substrate to either a different DNA polymerase or to a different protein(s) for the completion of the specific biological process? These questions have taken on added importance in light of the fact that the number of known template-dependent DNA polymerases in both eukaryotes and in prokaryotes has grown tremendously in the past two years. Most notably, the current list now includes a completely new family of enzymes that are capable of replicating imperfect DNA templates. This UmuC-DinB-Rad30-Rev1 superfamily of DNA polymerases has members in all three kingdoms of life. Members of this family have recently received a great deal of attention due to the roles they play in translesion DNA synthesis (TLS), the potentially mutagenic replication over DNA lesions that act as potent blocks to continued replication catalyzed by replicative DNA polymerases. Here, we have attempted to summarize our current understanding of the regulation of action of DNA polymerases with respect to their roles in DNA replication, TLS, DNA repair, DNA recombination, and cell cycle progression. In particular, we discuss these issues in the context of the Gram-negative bacterium, Escherichia coli, that contains a DNA polymerase (Pol V) known to participate in most, if not all, of these processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA polymerase V, composed of a heterotrimer of the DNA damage-inducible UmuC and UmuD proteins, working in conjunction with RecA, single-stranded DNA (ssDNA)-binding protein (SSB), β sliding clamp, and γ clamp loading complex, are responsible for most SOS lesion-targeted mutations in Escherichia coli, by catalyzing translesion synthesis (TLS). DNA polymerase II, the product of the damage-inducible polB (dinA ) gene plays a pivotal role in replication-restart, a process that bypasses DNA damage in an error-free manner. Replication-restart takes place almost immediately after the DNA is damaged (≈2 min post-UV irradiation), whereas TLS occurs after pol V is induced ≈50 min later. We discuss recent data for pol V-catalyzed TLS and pol II-catalyzed replication-restart. Specific roles during TLS for pol V and each of its accessory factors have been recently determined. Although the precise molecular mechanism of pol II-dependent replication-restart remains to be elucidated, it has recently been shown to operate in conjunction with RecFOR and PriA proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA polymerase η (Polη) functions in the error-free bypass of UV-induced DNA lesions, and a defect in Polη in humans causes the cancer-prone syndrome, the variant form of xeroderma pigmentosum. Both yeast and human Polη replicate through a cis-syn thymine-thymine dimer (TT dimer) by inserting two As opposite the two Ts of the dimer. Polη, however, is a low-fidelity enzyme, and it misinserts nucleotides with a frequency of ≈ 10−2 to 10−3 opposite the two Ts of the TT dimer as well as opposite the undamaged template bases. This low fidelity of nucleotide insertion seems to conflict with the role of Polη in the error-free bypass of UV lesions. To resolve this issue, we have examined the ability of human and yeast Polη to extend from paired and mispaired primer termini opposite a TT dimer by using steady-state kinetic assays. We find that Polη extends from mispaired primer termini on damaged and undamaged DNAs with a frequency of ≈ 10−2 to 10−3 relative to paired primer termini. Thus, after the incorporation of an incorrect nucleotide, Polη would dissociate from the DNA rather than extend from the mispair. The resulting primer-terminal mispair then could be subject to proofreading by a 3′→5′ exonuclease. Replication through a TT dimer by Polη then would be more accurate than that predicted from the fidelity of nucleotide incorporation alone.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The origin recognition complex (ORC) binds origins of replication and directs the assembly of a higher order protein complex at these sites. ORC binds and hydrolyzes ATP in vitro. ATP binding to the largest subunit of ORC, Orc1p, stimulates specific binding to origin DNA; however, the function of ATP hydrolysis by ORC is unknown. To address the role of ATP hydrolysis, we have generated mutants within Orc1p that are dominant lethal. At physiological ATP concentrations, these mutants are defective for ATP hydrolysis but not ATP binding in the absence of DNA. These mutants inhibit formation of the prereplicative complex when overexpressed. The dominant lethal phenotype of these mutant ORC complexes is suppressed by simultaneous overexpression of wild-type, but not mutant, Cdc6p. Our findings suggest that these hydrolysis-defective mutants inhibit growth by titrating Cdc6p away from the origin. Based on these observations, we propose that Cdc6p specifically recognizes the ATP-bound state of Orc1p and that ATP hydrolysis is coupled to preRC disassembly.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The coordinated assembly of the DNA polymerase (gp43), the sliding clamp (gp45), and the clamp loader (gp44/62) to form the bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase holoenzyme is a multistep process. A partially opened toroid-shaped gp45 is loaded around DNA by gp44/62 in an ATP-dependent manner. Gp43 binds to this complex to generate the holoenzyme in which gp45 acts to topologically link gp43 to DNA, effectively increasing the processivity of DNA replication. Stopped-flow fluorescence resonance energy transfer was used to investigate the opening and closing of the gp45 ring during holoenzyme assembly. By using two site-specific mutants of gp45 along with a previously characterized gp45 mutant, we tracked changes in distances across the gp45 subunit interface through seven conformational changes associated with holoenzyme assembly. Initially, gp45 is partially open within the plane of the ring at one of the three subunit interfaces. On addition of gp44/62 and ATP, this interface of gp45 opens further in-plane through the hydrolysis of ATP. Addition of DNA and hydrolysis of ATP close gp45 in an out-of-plane conformation. The final holoenzyme is formed by the addition of gp43, which causes gp45 to close further in plane, leaving the subunit interface open slightly. This open interface of gp45 in the final holoenzyme state is proposed to interact with the C-terminal tail of gp43, providing a point of contact between gp45 and gp43. This study further defines the dynamic process of bacteriophage T4 polymerase holoenzyme assembly.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The β and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) sliding clamps were first identified as components of their respective replicases, and thus were assigned a role in chromosome replication. Further studies have shown that the eukaryotic clamp, PCNA, interacts with several other proteins that are involved in excision repair, mismatch repair, cellular regulation, and DNA processing, indicating a much wider role than replication alone. Indeed, the Escherichia coli β clamp is known to function with DNA polymerases II and V, indicating that β also interacts with more than just the chromosomal replicase, DNA polymerase III. This report demonstrates three previously undetected protein–protein interactions with the β clamp. Thus, β interacts with MutS, DNA ligase, and DNA polymerase I. Given the diverse use of these proteins in repair and other DNA transactions, this expanded list of β interactive proteins suggests that the prokaryotic β ring participates in a wide variety of reactions beyond its role in chromosomal replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Crystal structures and biochemical analyses of PcrA helicase provide evidence for a model for processive DNA unwinding that involves coupling of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) tracking to a duplex destabilization activity. The DNA tracking model invokes ATP-dependent flipping of bases between several pockets on the enzyme formed by conserved aromatic amino acid residues. We have used site-directed mutagenesis to confirm the requirement of all of these residues for helicase activity. We also demonstrate that the duplex unwinding defects correlate with an inability of certain mutant proteins to translocate effectively on ssDNA. Moreover, the results define an essential triad of residues within the ssDNA binding site that comprise the ATP-driven DNA motor itself.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The RAD52 epistasis group genes are involved in homologous DNA recombination, and their primary structures are conserved from yeast to humans. Although biochemical studies have suggested that the fundamental mechanism of homologous DNA recombination is conserved from yeast to mammals, recent studies of vertebrate cells deficient in genes of the RAD52 epistasis group reveal that the role of each protein is not necessarily the same as that of the corresponding yeast gene product. This review addresses the roles and mechanisms of homologous recombination-mediated repair with a special emphasis on differences between yeast and vertebrate cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In most organisms homologous recombination is vital for the proper segregation of chromosomes during meiosis, the formation of haploid sex cells from diploid precursors. This review compares meiotic recombination and chromosome segregation in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe and the distantly related budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two especially tractable microorganisms. Certain features, such as the occurrence of DNA breaks associated with recombination, appear similar, suggesting that these features may be common in eukaryotes. Other features, such as the role of these breaks and the ability of chromosomes to segregate faithfully in the absence of recombination, appear different, suggesting multiple solutions to the problems faced in meiosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gene targeting in mammalian cells has proven invaluable in biotechnology, in studies of gene structure and function, and in understanding chromosome dynamics. It also offers a potential tool for gene-therapeutic applications. Two limitations constrain the current technology: the low rate of homologous recombination in mammalian cells and the high rate of random (nontargeted) integration of the vector DNA. Here we consider possible ways to overcome these limitations within the framework of our present understanding of recombination mechanisms and machinery. Several studies suggest that transient alteration of the levels of recombination proteins, by overexpression or interference with expression, may be able to increase homologous recombination or decrease random integration, and we present a list of candidate genes. We consider potentially beneficial modifications to the vector DNA and discuss the effects of methods of DNA delivery on targeting efficiency. Finally, we present work showing that gene-specific DNA damage can stimulate local homologous recombination, and we discuss recent results with two general methodologies—chimeric nucleases and triplex-forming oligonucleotides—for stimulating recombination in cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Members of the RecA family of recombinases from bacteriophage T4, Escherichia coli, yeast, and higher eukaryotes function in recombination as higher-order oligomers assembled on tracts of single-strand DNA (ssDNA). Biochemical studies have shown that assembly of recombinase involves accessory factors. These studies have identified a class of proteins, called recombination mediator proteins, that act by promoting assembly of recombinase on ssDNA tracts that are bound by ssDNA-binding protein (ssb). In the absence of mediators, ssb inhibits recombination reactions by competing with recombinase for DNA-binding sites. Here we briefly review mediated recombinase assembly and present results of new in vivo experiments. Immuno-double-staining experiments in Saccharomyces cerevisiae suggest that Rad51, the eukaryotic recombinase, can assemble at or near sites containing ssb (replication protein A, RPA) during the response to DNA damage, consistent with a need for mediator activity. Correspondingly, mediator gene mutants display defects in Rad51 assembly after DNA damage and during meiosis, although the requirements for assembly are distinct in the two cases. In meiosis, both Rad52 and Rad55/57 are required, whereas either Rad52 or Rad55/57 is sufficient to promote assembly of Rad51 in irradiated mitotic cells. Rad52 promotes normal amounts of Rad51 assembly in the absence of Rad55 at 30°C but not 20°C, accounting for the cold sensitivity of rad55 null mutants. Finally, we show that assembly of Rad51 is induced by radiation during S phase but not during G1, consistent with the role of Rad51 in repairing the spontaneous damage that occurs during DNA replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Both the bacterial RecA protein and the eukaryotic Rad51 protein form helical nucleoprotein filaments on DNA that catalyze strand transfer between two homologous DNA molecules. However, only the ATP-binding cores of these proteins have been conserved, and this same core is also found within helicases and the F1-ATPase. The C-terminal domain of the RecA protein forms lobes within the helical RecA filament. However, the Rad51 proteins do not have the C-terminal domain found in RecA, but have an N-terminal extension that is absent in the RecA protein. Both the RecA C-terminal domain and the Rad51 N-terminal domain bind DNA. We have used electron microscopy to show that the lobes of the yeast and human Rad51 filaments appear to be formed by N-terminal domains. These lobes are conformationally flexible in both RecA and Rad51. Within RecA filaments, the change between the “active” and “inactive” states appears to mainly involve a large movement of the C-terminal lobe. The N-terminal domain of Rad51 and the C-terminal domain of RecA may have arisen from convergent evolution to play similar roles in the filaments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Heteroduplex joints are general intermediates of homologous genetic recombination in DNA genomes. A heteroduplex joint is formed between a single-stranded region (or tail), derived from a cleaved parental double-stranded DNA, and homologous regions in another parental double-stranded DNA, in a reaction mediated by the RecA/Rad51-family of proteins. In this reaction, a RecA/Rad51-family protein first forms a filamentous complex with the single-stranded DNA, and then interacts with the double-stranded DNA in a search for homology. Studies of the three-dimensional structures of single-stranded DNA bound either to Escherichia coli RecA or Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad51 have revealed a novel extended DNA structure. This structure contains a hydrophobic interaction between the 2′ methylene moiety of each deoxyribose and the aromatic ring of the following base, which allows bases to rotate horizontally through the interconversion of sugar puckers. This base rotation explains the mechanism of the homology search and base-pair switch between double-stranded and single-stranded DNA during the formation of heteroduplex joints. The pivotal role of the 2′ methylene-base interaction in the heteroduplex joint formation is supported by comparing the recombination of RNA genomes with that of DNA genomes. Some simple organisms with DNA genomes induce homologous recombination when they encounter conditions that are unfavorable for their survival. The extended DNA structure confers a dynamic property on the otherwise chemically and genetically stable double-stranded DNA, enabling gene segment rearrangements without disturbing the coding frame (i.e., protein-segment shuffling). These properties may give an extensive evolutionary advantage to DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human Dmc1 protein, a meiosis-specific homolog of Escherichia coli RecA protein, has previously been shown to promote DNA homologous pairing and strand-exchange reactions that are qualitatively similar to those of RecA protein and Rad51. Human and yeast Rad51 proteins each form a nucleoprotein filament that is very similar to the filament formed by RecA protein. However, recent studies failed to find a similar filament made by Dmc1 but showed instead that this protein forms octameric rings and stacks of rings. These observations stimulated further efforts to elucidate the mechanism by which Dmc1 promotes the recognition of homology. Dmc1, purified to a state in which nuclease and helicase activities were undetectable, promoted homologous pairing and strand exchange as measured by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). Observations on the intermediates and products, which can be distinguished by FRET assays, provided direct evidence of a three-stranded synaptic intermediate. The effects of helix stability and mismatched base pairs on the recognition of homology revealed further that human Dmc1, like human Rad51, requires the preferential breathing of A⋅T base pairs for recognition of homology. We conclude that Dmc1, like human Rad51 and E. coli RecA protein, promotes homologous pairing and strand exchange by a “synaptic pathway” involving a three-stranded nucleoprotein intermediate, rather than by a “helicase pathway” involving the separation and reannealing of DNA strands.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In vertebrates, the RAD51 protein is required for genetic recombination, DNA repair, and cellular proliferation. Five paralogs of RAD51, known as RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, XRCC2, and XRCC3, have been identified and also shown to be required for recombination and genome stability. At the present time, however, very little is known about their biochemical properties or precise biological functions. As a first step toward understanding the roles of the RAD51 paralogs in recombination, the human RAD51C and XRCC3 proteins were overexpressed and purified from baculovirus-infected insect cells. The two proteins copurify as a complex, a property that reflects their endogenous association observed in HeLa cells. Purified RAD51C–XRCC3 complex binds single-stranded, but not duplex DNA, to form protein–DNA networks that have been visualized by electron microscopy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rad54 and Rad51 are important proteins for the repair of
 double-stranded DNA breaks by homologous recombination in eukaryotes.
 As previously shown, Rad51 protein forms nucleoprotein filaments on
 single-stranded DNA, and Rad54 protein directly interacts with such
 filaments to enhance synapsis, the homologous pairing with a
 double-stranded DNA partner. Here we demonstrate that
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54 protein has an additional
 role in the postsynaptic phase of DNA strand exchange by stimulating
 heteroduplex DNA extension of established joint molecules in
 Rad51/Rpa-mediated DNA strand exchange. This function depended on the
 ATPase activity of Rad54 protein and on specific protein:protein
 interactions between the yeast Rad54 and Rad51 proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Proper maintenance and duplication of the genome require accurate recombination between homologous DNA molecules. In eukaryotic cells, the Rad51 protein mediates pairing between homologous DNA molecules. This reaction is assisted by the Rad54 protein. To gain insight into how Rad54 functions, we studied the interaction of the human Rad54 (hRad54) protein with double-stranded DNA. We have recently shown that binding of hRad54 to DNA induces a change in DNA topology. To determine whether this change was caused by a protein-constrained change in twist, a protein-constrained change in writhe, or the introduction of unconstrained plectonemic supercoils, we investigated the hRad54–DNA complex by scanning force microscopy. The architecture of the observed complexes suggests that movement of the hRad54 protein complex along the DNA helix generates unconstrained plectonemic supercoils. We discuss how hRad54-induced superhelical stress in the target DNA may function to facilitate homologous DNA pairing by the hRad51 protein directly. In addition, the induction of supercoiling by hRad54 could stimulate recombination indirectly by displacing histones and/or other proteins packaging the DNA into chromatin. This function of DNA translocating motors might be of general importance in chromatin metabolism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Colloquium on the roles of homologous recombination in DNA replication are summarized. Current findings in experimental systems ranging from bacteriophages to mammalian cell lines substantiate the idea that homologous recombination is a system supporting DNA replication when either the template DNA is damaged or the replication machinery malfunctions. There are several lines of supporting evidence: (i) DNA replication aggravates preexisting DNA damage, which then blocks subsequent replication; (ii) replication forks abandoned by malfunctioning replisomes become prone to breakage; (iii) mutants with malfunctioning replisomes or with elevated levels of DNA damage depend on homologous recombination; and (iv) homologous recombination primes DNA replication in vivo and can restore replication fork structures in vitro. The mechanisms of recombinational repair in bacteriophage T4, Escherichia coli, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae are compared. In vitro properties of the eukaryotic recombinases suggest a bigger role for single-strand annealing in the eukaryotic recombinational repair.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Single-molecule studies of the conformations of the intact β2 adrenergic receptor were performed in solution. Photon bursts from the fluorescently tagged adrenergic receptor in a micelle were recorded. A photon-burst algorithm and a Poisson time filter were implemented to characterize single molecules diffusing across the probe volume of a confocal microscope. The effects of molecular diffusion and photon number fluctuations were deconvoluted by assuming that Poisson distributions characterize the molecular occupation and photon numbers. Photon-burst size histograms were constructed, from which the source intensity distributions were extracted. Different conformations of the β2 adrenergic receptor cause quenching of the bound fluorophore to different extents and hence produce different photon-burst sizes. An analysis of the photon-burst histograms shows that there are at least two distinct substates for the native adrenergic membrane receptor. This behavior is in contrast to one peak observed for the dye molecule, rhodamine 6G. We test the reliability and robustness of the substate number determination by investigating the application of different binning criteria. Conformational changes associated with agonist binding result in a marked change in the distribution of photon-burst sizes. These studies provide insight into the conformational heterogeneity of G protein-coupled receptors in the presence and absence of a bound agonist.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present the results of two-pump and probe femtosecond experiments designed to follow the relaxation dynamics of the lowest excited state (S1) populated by different modes. In the first mode, a direct (S0 → S1) radiative excitation of the ground state is used. In the second mode, an indirect excitation is used where the S1 state is populated by the use of two femtosecond laser pulses with different colors and delay times between them. The first pulse excites the S0 → S1 transition whereas the second pulse excites the S1 → Sn transition. The nonradiative relaxation from the Sn state populates the lowest excited state. Our results suggest that the S1 state relaxes faster when populated nonradiatively from the Sn state than when pumped directly by the S0 → S1 excitation. Additionally, the Sn → S1 nonradiative relaxation time is found to change by varying the delay time between the two pump pulses. The observed dependence of the lowest excited state population as well as its dependence on the delay between the two pump pulses are found to fit a kinetic model in which the Sn state populates a different surface (called S′1) than the one being directly excited (S1). The possible involvement of the Ag type states, the J intermediate, and the conical intersection leading to the S0 or to the isomerization product (K intermediate) are discussed in the framework of the proposed model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Here we report an approach to the design and production of antibody/ligand pairs, to achieve functional affinity far greater than avidin/biotin. Using fundamental chemical principles, we have developed antibody/ligand pairs that retain the binding specificity of the antibody, but do not dissociate. Choosing a structurally characterized antibody/ligand pair as an example, we engineered complementary reactive groups in the antibody binding pocket and the ligand, so that they would be in close proximity in the antibody/ligand complex. Cross-reactions with other molecules in the medium are averted because of the low reactivity of these groups; however, in the antibody/ligand complex the effective local concentrations of the complementary reactive groups are very large, allowing a covalent reaction to link the two together. By eliminating the dissociation of the ligand from the antibody, we have made the affinity functionally infinite. This chemical manipulation of affinity is applicable to other biological binding pairs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent experiments have measured the rate of replication of DNA catalyzed by a single enzyme moving along a stretched template strand. The dependence on tension was interpreted as evidence that T7 and related DNA polymerases convert two (n = 2) or more single-stranded template bases to double helix geometry in the polymerization site during each catalytic cycle. However, we find structural data on the T7 enzyme–template complex indicate n = 1. We also present a model for the “tuning” of replication rate by mechanical tension. This model considers only local interactions in the neighborhood of the enzyme, unlike previous models that use stretching curves for the entire polymer chain. Our results, with n = 1, reconcile force-dependent replication rate studies with structural data on DNA polymerase complexes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A theory of the unzipping of double-stranded DNA is presented and is compared to recent micromanipulation experiments. It is shown that the interactions that stabilize the double helix and the elastic rigidity of single strands simply determine the sequence-dependent ≈12-pN force threshold for DNA strand separation. Using a semimicroscopic model of the binding between nucleotide strands, we show that the greater rigidity of the strands when formed into double-stranded DNA, relative to that of isolated strands, gives rise to a potential barrier to unzipping. The effects of this barrier are derived analytically. The force to keep the extremities of the molecule at a fixed distance, the kinetic rates for strand unpairing at fixed applied force, and the rupture force as a function of loading rate are calculated. The dependence of the kinetics and of the rupture force on molecule length is also analyzed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To gain insight into the structural basis of DNA bending by adenine–thymine tracts (A-tracts) and their role in DNA recognition by gene-regulatory proteins, we have determined the crystal structure of the high-affinity DNA target of the cancer-associated human papillomavirus E2 protein. The three independent B-DNA molecules of the crystal structure determined at 2.2-Å resolution are examples of A-tract-containing helices where the global direction and magnitude of curvature are in accord with solution data, thereby providing insights, at the base pair level, into the mechanism of DNA bending by such sequence motifs. A comparative analysis of E2–DNA conformations with respect to other structural and biochemical studies demonstrates that (i) the A-tract structure of the core region, which is not contacted by the protein, is critical for the formation of the high-affinity sequence-specific protein–DNA complex, and (ii) differential binding affinity is regulated by the intrinsic structure and deformability encoded in the base sequence of the DNA target.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The crystal structure at 2.0-Å resolution of an 81-residue N-terminal fragment of muscle α-tropomyosin reveals a parallel two-stranded α-helical coiled-coil structure with a remarkable core. The high alanine content of the molecule is clustered into short regions where the local 2-fold symmetry is broken by a small (≈1.2-Å) axial staggering of the helices. The joining of these regions with neighboring segments, where the helices are in axial register, gives rise to specific bends in the molecular axis. We observe such bends to be widely distributed in two-stranded α-helical coiled-coil proteins. This asymmetric design in a dimer of identical (or highly similar) sequences allows the tropomyosin molecule to adopt multiple bent conformations. The seven alanine clusters in the core of the complete molecule (which spans seven monomers of the actin helix) promote the semiflexible winding of the tropomyosin filament necessary for its regulatory role in muscle contraction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Structural studies of viral membrane fusion proteins suggest that a “trimer-of-hairpins” motif plays a critical role in the membrane fusion process of many enveloped viruses. In this motif, a coiled coil (formed by homotrimeric association of the N-terminal regions of the protein) is surrounded by three C-terminal regions that pack against the coiled coil in an oblique antiparallel manner. The resulting trimer-of-hairpins structure serves to bring the viral and cellular membranes together for fusion. learncoil-vmf, a computational program developed to recognize coiled coil-like regions that form the trimer-of-hairpins motif, predicts these regions in the membrane fusion protein of the Visna virus. Peptides corresponding to the computationally identified sequences were synthesized, and the soluble core of the Visna membrane fusion protein was reconstituted in solution. Its crystal structure at 1.5-Å resolution demonstrates that a trimer-of-hairpins structure is formed. Remarkably, despite less than 23% sequence identity, the ectodomains in Visna and HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins show detailed structural conservation, especially within the area of a hydrophobic pocket in the central coiled coil currently being targeted for the development of new anti-HIV drugs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The carcinogenic heterocyclic amine (HA) 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is formed during the cooking of various meats. To enable structure/activity studies aimed at understanding how DNA damaged by a member of the HA class of compounds can ultimately lead to cancer, we have determined the first solution structure of an 11-mer duplex containing the C8-dG adduct formed by reaction with N-acetoxy-PhIP. A slow conformational exchange is observed in which the PhIP ligand either intercalates into the DNA helix by denaturing and displacing the modified base pair (main form) or is located outside the helix in a minimally perturbed B-DNA duplex (minor form). In the main base-displaced intercalation structure, the minor groove is widened, and the major groove is compressed at the lesion site because of the location of the bulky PhIP-N-methyl and phenyl ring in the minor groove; this distortion causes significant bending of the helix. The PhIP phenyl ring interacts with the phosphodiester-sugar ring backbone of the complementary strand and its fast rotation with respect to the intercalated imidazopyridine ring causes substantial distortions at this site, such as unwinding and bulging-out of the strand. The glycosidic torsion angle of the [PhIP]dG residue is syn, and the displaced guanine base is directed toward the 3′ end of the modified strand. This study contributes, to our knowledge, the first structural information on the biologically relevant HA class to a growing body of knowledge about how conformational similarities and differences for a variety of types of lesions can influence protein interactions and ultimately biological outcome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A covalently linked protein–protein conjugate between ThiF and ThiS thiocarboxylate was found in a partially purified coexpressed ThiF/ThiS protein mixture by using Fourier transform mass spectrometry. The Cys-184 of ThiF and the C terminus of ThiS thiocarboxylate were identified to be involved in the formation of this complex by using both mutagenesis and chemical modification methods. A complementation study of Escherichia coli thiF− using thiF(C184S) suggests that this conjugate is an essential intermediate involved in the biosynthesis of the thiazole moiety of thiamin. This ThiF/ThiS conjugate is the first characterized example of a unique acyldisulfide intermediate in a biosynthetic system. This protein conjugate is also an example of an ubiquitin-E1 like protein–protein conjugate in prokaryotes and supports a strong evolutionary link between thiamin biosynthesis and the ubiquitin conjugating system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Subunit rotation within the F1 catalytic sector of the ATP synthase has been well documented, identifying the synthase as the smallest known rotary motor. In the membrane-embedded FO sector, it is thought that proton transport occurs at a rotor/stator interface between the oligomeric ring of c subunits (rotor) and the single-copy a subunit (stator). Here we report evidence for an energy-dependent rotation at this interface. FOF1 was expressed with a pair of substituted cysteines positioned to allow an intersubunit disulfide crosslink between subunit a and a c subunit [aN214C/cM65C; Jiang, W. & Fillingame, R. H. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95, 6607–6612]. Membranes were treated with N,N′-dicyclohexyl-[14C]carbodiimide to radiolabel the D61 residue on less than 20% of the c subunits. After oxidation to form an a–c crosslink, the c subunit properly aligned to crosslink to subunit a was found to contain very little 14C label relative to other members of the c ring. However, exposure to MgATP before oxidation significantly increased the radiolabel in the a–c crosslink, indicating that a different c subunit was now aligned with subunit a. This increase was not induced by exposure to MgADP/Pi. Furthermore, preincubation with MgADP and azide to inhibit F1 or with high concentrations of N,N′-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide to label most c subunits prevented the ATP effect. These results provide evidence for an energy-dependent rotation of the c ring relative to subunit a.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein phosphoaspartate bonds play a variety of roles. In response regulator proteins of two-component signal transduction systems, phosphorylation of an aspartate residue is coupled to a change from an inactive to an active conformation. In phosphatases and mutases of the haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) superfamily, phosphoaspartate serves as an intermediate in phosphotransfer reactions, and in P-type ATPases, also members of the HAD family, it serves in the conversion of chemical energy to ion gradients. In each case, lability of the phosphoaspartate linkage has hampered a detailed study of the phosphorylated form. For response regulators, this difficulty was recently overcome with a phosphate analog, BeF, which yields persistent complexes with the active site aspartate of their receiver domains. We now extend the application of this analog to a HAD superfamily member by solving at 1.5-Å resolution the x-ray crystal structure of the complex of BeF with phosphoserine phosphatase (PSP) from Methanococcus jannaschii. The structure is comparable to that of a phosphoenzyme intermediate: BeF is bound to Asp-11 with the tetrahedral geometry of a phosphoryl group, is coordinated to Mg2+, and is bound to residues surrounding the active site that are conserved in the HAD superfamily. Comparison of the active sites of BeF⋅PSP and BeF⋅CeY, a receiver domain/response regulator, reveals striking similarities that provide insights into the function not only of PSP but also of P-type ATPases. Our results indicate that use of BeF for structural studies of proteins that form phosphoaspartate linkages will extend well beyond response regulators.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although a functional role in copper binding has been suggested for the prion protein, evidence for binding at affinities characteristic of authentic metal-binding proteins has been lacking. By presentation of copper(II) ions in the presence of the weak chelator glycine, we have now characterized two high-affinity binding sites for divalent transition metals within the human prion protein. One is in the N-terminal octapeptide-repeat segment and has a Kd for copper(II) of 10−14 M, with other metals (Ni2+, Zn2+, and Mn2+) binding three or more orders of magnitude more weakly. However, NMR and fluorescence data reveal a previously unreported second site around histidines 96 and 111, a region of the molecule known to be crucial for prion propagation. The Kd for copper(II) at this site is 4 × 10−14 M, whereas nickel(II), zinc(II), and manganese(II) bind 6, 7, and 10 orders of magnitude more weakly, respectively, regardless of whether the protein is in its oxidized α-helical (α-PrP) or reduced β-sheet (β-PrP) conformation. A role for prion protein (PrP) in copper metabolism or transport seems likely and disturbance of this function may be involved in prion-related neurotoxicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
GM1-ganglioside receptor binding by the B subunit of cholera toxin (CtxB) is widely accepted to initiate toxin action by triggering uptake and delivery of the toxin A subunit into cells. More recently, GM1 binding by isolated CtxB, or the related B subunit of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (EtxB), has been found to modulate leukocyte function, resulting in the down-regulation of proinflammatory immune responses that cause autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and diabetes. Here, we demonstrate that GM1 binding, contrary to expectation, is not sufficient to initiate toxin action. We report the engineering and crystallographic structure of a mutant cholera toxin, with a His to Ala substitution in the B subunit at position 57. Whereas the mutant retained pentameric stability and high affinity binding to GM1-ganglioside, it had lost its immunomodulatory activity and, when part of the holotoxin complex, exhibited ablated toxicity. The implications of these findings on the mode of action of cholera toxin are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endopolyphosphatases (Ppn1) from yeast and animal cells hydrolyze inorganic polyphosphate (poly P) chains of many hundreds of phosphate residues into shorter lengths. The limit digest consists predominantly of chains of 60 (P60) and 3 (P3) Pi residues. Ppn1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a homodimer of 35-kDa subunits (about 352-aa) is of vacuolar origin and requires the protease activation of a 75-kDa (674-aa) precursor polypeptide. The Ppn1 gene (PPN1) now has been cloned, sequenced, overexpressed, and deleted. That PPN1 encodes Ppn1 was verified by a 25-fold increase in Ppn1 when overexpressed under a GAL promoter and also by several peptide sequences that match exactly with sequences in a yeast genome ORF, the mutation of which abolishes Ppn1 activity. Null mutants in Ppn1 accumulate long-chain poly P and are defective in growth in minimal media. A double mutant of PPN1 and PPX1 (the gene encoding a potent exopolyphosphatase) loses viability rapidly in stationary phase. Whether this loss is a result of the excess of long-chain poly P or to the lack of shorter chains (i.e., poly P60 and P3) is unknown. Overexpression of the processed form of Ppn1 should provide a unique and powerful reagent to analyze poly P when the chain termini are unavailable to the actions of polyPase and poly P kinase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Streptomyces lavendulae produces complestatin, a cyclic peptide natural product that antagonizes pharmacologically relevant protein–protein interactions including formation of the C4b,2b complex in the complement cascade and gp120-CD4 binding in the HIV life cycle. Complestatin, a member of the vancomycin group of natural products, consists of an α-ketoacyl hexapeptide backbone modified by oxidative phenolic couplings and halogenations. The entire complestatin biosynthetic and regulatory gene cluster spanning ca. 50 kb was cloned and sequenced. It consisted of 16 ORFs, encoding proteins homologous to nonribosomal peptide synthetases, cytochrome P450-related oxidases, ferredoxins, nonheme halogenases, four enzymes involved in 4-hydroxyphenylglycine (Hpg) biosynthesis, transcriptional regulators, and ABC transporters. The nonribosomal peptide synthetase consisted of a priming module, six extending modules, and a terminal thioesterase; their arrangement and domain content was entirely consistent with functions required for the biosynthesis of a heptapeptide or α-ketoacyl hexapeptide backbone. Two oxidase genes were proposed to be responsible for the construction of the unique aryl-ether-aryl-aryl linkage on the linear heptapeptide intermediate. Hpg, 3,5-dichloro-Hpg, and 3,5-dichloro-hydroxybenzoylformate are unusual building blocks that repesent five of the seven requisite monomers in the complestatin peptide. Heterologous expression and biochemical analysis of 4-hydroxyphenylglycine transaminon confirmed its role as an aminotransferase responsible for formation of all three precursors. The close similarity but functional divergence between complestatin and chloroeremomycin biosynthetic genes also presents a unique opportunity for the construction of hybrid vancomycin-type antibiotics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The intracellular levels of many proteins are regulated by ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. One of the best-characterized enzymes that catalyzes the attachment of ubiquitin to proteins is a ubiquitin ligase complex, Skp1-Cullin-F box complex containing Hrt1 (SCF). We sought to artificially target a protein to the SCF complex for ubiquitination and degradation. To this end, we tested methionine aminopeptidase-2 (MetAP-2), which covalently binds the angiogenesis inhibitor ovalicin. A chimeric compound, protein-targeting chimeric molecule 1 (Protac-1), was synthesized to recruit MetAP-2 to SCF. One domain of Protac-1 contains the IκBα phosphopeptide that is recognized by the F-box protein β-TRCP, whereas the other domain is composed of ovalicin. We show that MetAP-2 can be tethered to SCFβ-TRCP, ubiquitinated, and degraded in a Protac-1-dependent manner. In the future, this approach may be useful for conditional inactivation of proteins, and for targeting disease-causing proteins for destruction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The reaction of the old yellow enzyme and reduced flavins with organic nitrate esters has been studied. Reduced flavins have been found to react readily with glycerin trinitrate (GTN ) (nitroglycerin) and propylene dinitrate, with rate constants at pH 7.0, 25°C of 145 M−1s−1 and 5.8 M−1s−1, respectively. With GTN, the secondary nitrate was removed reductively 6 times faster than the primary nitrate, with liberation of nitrite. With propylene dinitrate, on the other hand, the primary nitrate residue was 3 times more reactive than the secondary residue. In the old yellow enzyme-catalyzed NADPH-dependent reduction of GTN and propylene dinitrate, ping-pong kinetics are displayed, as found for all other substrates of the enzyme. Rapid-reaction studies of mixing reduced enzyme with the nitrate esters show that a reduced enzyme–substrate complex is formed before oxidation of the reduced flavin. The rate constants for these reactions and the apparent Kd values of the enzyme–substrate complexes have been determined and reveal that the rate-limiting step in catalysis is reduction of the enzyme by NADPH. Analysis of the products reveal that with the enzyme-catalyzed reactions, reduction of the primary nitrate in both GTN and propylene dinitrate is favored by comparison with the free-flavin reactions. This preferential positional reactivity can be rationalized by modeling of the substrates into the known crystal structure of the enzyme. In contrast to the facile reaction of free reduced flavins with GTN, reduced 5-deazaflavins have been found to react some 4–5 orders of magnitude slower. This finding implies that the chemical mechanism of the reaction is one involving radical transfers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Escherichia coli possesses three SOS-inducible DNA polymerases (Pol II, IV, and V) that were recently found to participate in translesion synthesis and mutagenesis. Involvement of these polymerases appears to depend on the nature of the lesion and its local sequence context, as illustrated by the bypass of a single N-2-acetylaminofluorene adduct within the NarI mutation hot spot. Indeed, error-free bypass requires Pol V (umuDC), whereas mutagenic (−2 frameshift) bypass depends on Pol II (polB). In this paper, we show that purified DNA Pol II is able in vitro to generate the −2 frameshift bypass product observed in vivo at the NarI sites. Although the ΔpolB strain is completely defective in this mutation pathway, introduction of the polB gene on a low copy number plasmid restores the −2 frameshift pathway. In fact, modification of the relative copy number of polB versus umuDC genes results in a corresponding modification in the use of the frameshift versus error-free translesion pathways, suggesting a direct competition between Pol II and V for the bypass of the same lesion. Whether such a polymerase competition model for translesion synthesis will prove to be generally applicable remains to be confirmed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most eukaryotic telomeres contain a repeating motif with stretches of guanine residues that form a 3′-terminal overhang extending beyond the telomeric duplex region. The telomeric repeat of hypotrichous ciliates, d(T4G4), forms a 16-nucleotide 3′-overhang. Such sequences can adopt parallel-stranded as well as antiparallel-stranded quadruplex conformations in vitro. Although it has been proposed that guanine-quadruplex conformations may have important cellular roles including telomere function, recombination, and transcription, evidence for the existence of this DNA structure in vivo has been elusive to date. We have generated high-affinity single-chain antibody fragment (scFv) probes for the guanine-quadruplex formed by the Stylonychia telomeric repeat, by ribosome display from the Human Combinatorial Antibody Library. Of the scFvs selected, one (Sty3) had an affinity of Kd = 125 pM for the parallel-stranded guanine-quadruplex and could discriminate with at least 1,000-fold specificity between parallel or antiparallel quadruplex conformations formed by the same sequence motif. A second scFv (Sty49) bound both the parallel and antiparallel quadruplex with similar (Kd = 3–5 nM) affinity. Indirect immunofluorescence studies show that Sty49 reacts specifically with the macronucleus but not the micronucleus of Stylonychia lemnae. The replication band, the region where replication and telomere elongation take place, was also not stained, suggesting that the guanine-quadruplex is resolved during replication. Our results provide experimental evidence that the telomeres of Stylonychia macronuclei adopt in vivo a guanine-quadruplex structure, indicating that this structure may have an important role for telomere functioning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The docking protein FRS2α has been implicated as a mediator of signaling via fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs). We have demonstrated that targeted disruption of FRS2α gene causes severe impairment in mouse development resulting in embryonal lethality at E7.0–E7.5. Experiments with FRS2α-deficient fibroblasts demonstrate that FRS2α plays a critical role in FGF-induced mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase stimulation, phosphatidylinositol-3 (PI-3) kinase activation, chemotactic response, and cell proliferation. Following FGF stimulation, tyrosine phosphorylated FRS2α functions as a site for coordinated assembly of a multiprotein complex that includes Gab1 and the effector proteins that are recruited by this docking protein. Furthermore, we demonstrate that different tyrosine phosphorylation sites on FRS2α are responsible for mediating different FGF-induced biological responses. These experiments establish the central role of FRS2α in signaling via FGFRs and demonstrate that FRS2α mediates multiple FGFR-dependent signaling pathways critical for embryonic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Baculovirus-expressed recombinant Sir3p (rSir3p) has been purified to near homogeneity, and its binding to naked DNA, mononucleosomes, and nucleosomal arrays has been characterized in vitro. At stoichiometric levels rSir3p interacts with intact nucleosomal arrays, mononucleosomes, and naked DNA, as evidenced by formation of supershifted species on native agarose gels. Proteolytic removal of the core histone tail domains inhibits but does not completely abolish rSir3p binding to nucleosomal arrays. The linker DNA in the supershifted complexes remains freely accessible to restriction endonuclease digestion, suggesting that both the tail domains and nucleosomal DNA contribute to rSir3p–chromatin interactions. Together these data indicate that rSir3p cross-links individual nucleosomal arrays into supramolecular assemblies whose physical properties transcend those of typical 10-nm and 30-nm fibers. Based on these data we hypothesize that Sir3p functions, at least in part, by mediating reorganization of the canonical chromatin fiber into functionally specialized higher order chromosomal domains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The matrix (M) protein of vesicular stomatitis virus inhibits both nuclear import and export. Here, we demonstrate that this inhibitory property is conserved between the M proteins from two other vesiculoviruses, chandipura virus and spring viremia carp virus. All three M proteins completely block nuclear transport of spliced mRNA, small nuclear RNAs, and small nuclear ribonucleoproteins and slow the nuclear transport of many other cargoes. In all cases where transport was merely slowed by the M proteins, the chandipura virus M protein had the strongest inhibitory activity. When expressed in transfected HeLa cells, active M proteins displayed prominent association with the nuclear rim. Moreover, mutation of a conserved methionine abolished both the inhibitory activity and efficient targeting of the M proteins to the nuclear rim. We propose that all of the vesiculoviral M proteins associate with the same nuclear target, which is likely to be a component of the nuclear pore complex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Signaling through the Toll receptor is required for dorsal/ventral polarity in Drosophila embryos, and also plays an evolutionarily conserved role in the immune response. Upon ligand binding, Toll appears to multimerize and activate the associated kinase, Pelle. However, the immediate downstream targets of Pelle have not been identified. Here we show that Drosophila tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 2 (dTRAF2), a homologue of human TRAF6, physically and functionally interacts with Pelle, and is phosphorylated by Pelle in vitro. Importantly, dTRAF2 and Pelle cooperate to activate Dorsal synergistically in cotransfected Schneider cells. Deletion of the C-terminal TRAF domain of dTRAF2 enhances Dorsal activation, perhaps reflecting the much stronger interaction of the mutant protein with phosphorylated, active Pelle. Taken together, our results indicate that Pelle and dTRAF2 physically and functionally interact, and that the TRAF domain acts as a regulator of this interaction. dTRAF2 thus appears to be a downstream target of Pelle. We discuss these results in the context of Toll signaling in flies and mammals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present the results of two-pump and probe femtosecond experiments designed to follow the relaxation dynamics of the lowest excited state (S1) populated by different modes. In the first mode, a direct (S0 → S1) radiative excitation of the ground state is used. In the second mode, an indirect excitation is used where the S1 state is populated by the use of two femtosecond laser pulses with different colors and delay times between them. The first pulse excites the S0 → S1 transition whereas the second pulse excites the S1 → Sn transition. The nonradiative relaxation from the Sn state populates the lowest excited state. Our results suggest that the S1 state relaxes faster when populated nonradiatively from the Sn state than when pumped directly by the S0 → S1 excitation. Additionally, the Sn → S1 nonradiative relaxation time is found to change by varying the delay time between the two pump pulses. The observed dependence of the lowest excited state population as well as its dependence on the delay between the two pump pulses are found to fit a kinetic model in which the Sn state populates a different surface (called S′1) than the one being directly excited (S1). The possible involvement of the Ag type states, the J intermediate, and the conical intersection leading to the S0 or to the isomerization product (K intermediate) are discussed in the framework of the proposed model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent experiments have measured the rate of replication of DNA catalyzed by a single enzyme moving along a stretched template strand. The dependence on tension was interpreted as evidence that T7 and related DNA polymerases convert two (n = 2) or more single-stranded template bases to double helix geometry in the polymerization site during each catalytic cycle. However, we find structural data on the T7 enzyme–template complex indicate n = 1. We also present a model for the “tuning” of replication rate by mechanical tension. This model considers only local interactions in the neighborhood of the enzyme, unlike previous models that use stretching curves for the entire polymer chain. Our results, with n = 1, reconcile force-dependent replication rate studies with structural data on DNA polymerase complexes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The heart of oxygenic photosynthesis is photosystem II (PSII), a
 multisubunit protein complex that uses solar energy to drive the
 splitting of water and production of molecular oxygen. The
 effectiveness of the photochemical reaction center of PSII depends on
 the efficient transfer of excitation energy from the surrounding
 antenna chlorophylls. A kinetic model for PSII, based on the x-ray
 crystal structure coordinates of 37 antenna and reaction center pigment
 molecules, allows us to map the major energy transfer routes from the
 antenna chlorophylls to the reaction center chromophores. The model
 shows that energy transfer to the reaction center is slow compared with
 the rate of primary electron transport and depends on a few bridging
 chlorophyll molecules. This unexpected energetic isolation of the
 reaction center in PSII is similar to that found in the bacterial
 photosystem, conflicts with the established view of the photophysics of
 PSII, and may be a functional requirement for primary photochemistry in
 photosynthesis. In addition, the model predicts a value for the
 intrinsic photochemical rate constant that is 4 times that found in
 bacterial reaction centers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A theory of the unzipping of double-stranded DNA is presented and is compared to recent micromanipulation experiments. It is shown that the interactions that stabilize the double helix and the elastic rigidity of single strands simply determine the sequence-dependent ≈12-pN force threshold for DNA strand separation. Using a semimicroscopic model of the binding between nucleotide strands, we show that the greater rigidity of the strands when formed into double-stranded DNA, relative to that of isolated strands, gives rise to a potential barrier to unzipping. The effects of this barrier are derived analytically. The force to keep the extremities of the molecule at a fixed distance, the kinetic rates for strand unpairing at fixed applied force, and the rupture force as a function of loading rate are calculated. The dependence of the kinetics and of the rupture force on molecule length is also analyzed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cells are intrinsically noisy biochemical reactors: low reactant numbers can lead to significant statistical fluctuations in molecule numbers and reaction rates. Here we use an analytic model to investigate the emergent noise properties of genetic systems. We find for a single gene that noise is essentially determined at the translational level, and that the mean and variance of protein concentration can be independently controlled. The noise strength immediately following single gene induction is almost twice the final steady-state value. We find that fluctuations in the concentrations of a regulatory protein can propagate through a genetic cascade; translational noise control could explain the inefficient translation rates observed for genes encoding such regulatory proteins. For an autoregulatory protein, we demonstrate that negative feedback efficiently decreases system noise. The model can be used to predict the noise characteristics of networks of arbitrary connectivity. The general procedure is further illustrated for an autocatalytic protein and a bistable genetic switch. The analysis of intrinsic noise reveals biological roles of gene network structures and can lead to a deeper understanding of their evolutionary origin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This computer simulation is based on a model of the origin of life proposed by H. Kuhn and J. Waser, where the evolution of short molecular strands is assumed to take place in a distinct spatiotemporal structured environment. In their model, the prebiotic situation is strongly simplified to grasp essential features of the evolution of the genetic apparatus without attempts to trace the historic path. With the tool of computer implementation confining to principle aspects and focused on critical features of the model, a deeper understanding of the model's premises is achieved. Each generation consists of three steps: (i) construction of devices (entities exposed to selection) presently available; (ii) selection; and (iii) multiplication of the isolated strands (R oligomers) by complementary copying with occasional variation by copying mismatch. In the beginning, the devices are single strands with random sequences; later, increasingly complex aggregates of strands form devices such as a hairpin-assembler device which develop in favorable cases. A monomers interlink by binding to the hairpin-assembler device, and a translation machinery, called the hairpin-assembler-enzyme device, emerges, which translates the sequence of R1 and R2 monomers in the assembler strand to the sequence of A1 and A2 monomers in the A oligomer, working as an enzyme.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The role and even the existence of myocyte proliferation in the adult heart remain controversial. Documentation of cell cycle regulators, DNA synthesis, and mitotic images has not modified the view that myocardial growth can only occur from hypertrophy of an irreplaceable population of differentiated myocytes. To improve understanding the biology of the heart and obtain supportive evidence of myocyte replication, three indices of cell proliferation were analyzed in dogs affected by a progressive deterioration of cardiac performance and dilated cardiomyopathy. The magnitude of cycling myocytes was evaluated by the expression of Ki67 in nuclei. Ki67 labeling of left ventricular myocytes increased 5-fold, 12-fold, and 17-fold with the onset of moderate and severe ventricular dysfunction and overt failure, respectively. Telomerase activity in vivo is present only in multiplying cells; this enzyme increased 2.4-fold and 3.1-fold in the decompensated heart, preserving telomeric length in myocytes. The contribution of cycling myocytes to telomerase activity was determined by the colocalization of Ki67 and telomerase in myocyte nuclei. More than 50% of Ki67-positive cells expressed telomerase in the overloaded myocardium, suggesting that these myocytes were the morphological counterpart of the biochemical assay of enzyme activity. Moreover, we report that 20–30% of canine myocytes were telomerase competent, and this value was not changed by cardiac failure. In conclusion, the enhanced expression of Ki67 and telomerase activity, in combination with Ki67-telomerase labeling of myocyte nuclei, support the notion that myocyte proliferation contributes to cardiac hypertrophy of the diseased heart.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Contact interactions between different cell types play a number of important roles in development, for example in cell sorting, tissue organization, and ordered migration of cells. The nature of such heterocellular interactions, in contrast to interactions between cells of the same type, remains largely unknown. In this report, we present experimental data examining the dynamics of heterocellular interactions between epitheliocytes and fibroblasts, which express different cadherin cell adhesion molecules and possess different actin cytoskeletal organizations. Our analysis revealed two striking features of heterocellular contact. First, the active free edge of an epitheliocyte reorganizes its actin cytoskeleton after making contact with a fibroblast. Upon contact with the leading edge of a fibroblast, epitheliocytes disassemble their marginal bundle of actin filaments and reassemble actin filaments into a geometric organization more typical of a fibroblast lamella. Second, epitheliocytes and fibroblasts form cell–cell adhesion structures that have an irregular organization and are associated with components of cell adhesion complexes. The structural organization of these adhesions is more closely related to the type of contacts formed between fibroblasts rather than to those between epitheliocytes. Heterotypic epithelio-fibroblastic contacts, like homotypic contacts between fibroblasts, are transient and do not lead to formation of stable contact interactions. We suggest that heterocellular contact interactions in culture may be regarded as models of how tissue systems consisting of epithelia and mesenchyme interact and become organized in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The human inducible nitric oxide synthase (hiNOS) gene is expressed in several disease states and is also important in the normal immune response. Previously, we described a cytokine-responsive enhancer between −5.2 and −6.1 kb in the 5′-flanking hiNOS promoter DNA, which contains multiple nuclear factor κβ (NF-κB) elements. Here, we describe the role of the IFN-Jak kinase-Stat (signal transducer and activator of transcription) 1 pathway for regulation of hiNOS gene transcription. In A549 human lung epithelial cells, a combination of cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, and IFN-γ (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IFN-γ) function synergistically for induction of hiNOS transcription. Pharmacological inhibitors of Jak2 kinase inhibit cytokine-induced Stat 1 DNA-binding and hiNOS gene expression. Expression of a dominant-negative mutant Stat 1 inhibits cytokine-induced hiNOS reporter expression. Site-directed mutagenesis of a cis-acting DNA element at −5.8 kb in the hiNOS promoter identifies a bifunctional NF-κB/Stat 1 motif. In contrast, gel shift assays indicate that only Stat 1 binds to the DNA element at −5.2 kb in the hiNOS promoter. Interestingly, Stat 1 is repressive to basal and stimulated iNOS mRNA expression in 2fTGH human fibroblasts, which are refractory to iNOS induction. Overexpression of NF-κB activates hiNOS promoter–reporter expression in Stat 1 mutant fibroblasts, but not in the wild type, suggesting that Stat 1 inhibits NF-κB function in these cells. These results indicate that both Stat 1 and NF-κB are important in the regulation of hiNOS transcription by cytokines in a complex and cell type-specific manner.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Carriers of BRCA2 germline mutations are at high risk to develop early-onset breast cancer. The underlying mechanisms of how BRCA2 inactivation predisposes to malignant transformation have not been established. Here, we provide direct functional evidence that human BRCA2 promotes homologous recombination (HR), which comprises one major pathway of DNA double-strand break repair. We found that up-regulated HR after transfection of wild-type (wt) BRCA2 into a human tumor line with mutant BRCA2 was linked to increased radioresistance. In addition, BRCA2-mediated enhancement of HR depended on the interaction with Rad51. In contrast to the tumor suppressor BRCA1, which is involved in multiple DNA repair pathways, BRCA2 status had no impact on the other principal double-strand break repair pathway, nonhomologous end joining. Thus, there exists a specific regulation of HR by BRCA2, which may function to maintain genomic integrity and suppress tumor development in proliferating cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Runx (Cbfa/AML) transcription factors are critical for tissue-specific gene expression. A unique targeting signal in the C terminus directs Runx factors to discrete foci within the nucleus. Using Runx2/CBFA1/AML3 and its essential role in osteogenesis as a model, we investigated the fundamental importance of fidelity of subnuclear localization for tissue differentiating activity by deleting the intranuclear targeting signal via homologous recombination. Mice homozygous for the deletion (Runx2ΔC) do not form bone due to maturational arrest of osteoblasts. Heterozygotes do not develop clavicles, but are otherwise normal. These phenotypes are indistinguishable from those of the homozygous and heterozygous null mutants, indicating that the intranuclear targeting signal is a critical determinant for function. The expressed truncated Runx2ΔC protein enters the nucleus and retains normal DNA binding activity, but shows complete loss of intranuclear targeting. These results demonstrate that the multifunctional N-terminal region of the Runx2 protein is not sufficient for biological activity. We conclude that subnuclear localization of Runx factors in specific foci together with associated regulatory functions is essential for control of Runx-dependent genes involved in tissue differentiation during embryonic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Photoactivation of caged fluorescent tubulin was used mark the microtubule (MT) lattice and monitor MT behavior in interphase cells. A broadening of the photoactivated region occurred as MTs moved bidirectionally. MT movement was not inhibited when MT assembly was suppressed with nocodazole or Taxol; MT movement was suppressed by inhibition of myosin light chain kinase with ML7 or by a peptide inhibitor. Conversely, MT movement was increased after inhibition of cytoplasmic dynein with the antibody 70.1. In addition, the half-time for MT turnover was decreased in cells treated with ML7. These results demonstrate that myosin II and cytoplasmic dynein contribute to a balance of forces that regulates MT organization, movement, and turnover in interphase cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) family of anti-apoptotic proteins regulate programmed cell death and/or apoptosis. One such protein, X-linked IAP (XIAP), inhibits the activity of the cell death proteases, caspase-3, -7, and -9. In this study, using constitutively active mutants of caspase-3, we found that XIAP promotes the degradation of active-form caspase-3, but not procaspase-3, in living cells. The XIAP mutants, which cannot interact with caspase-3, had little or no activity of promoting the degradation of caspase-3. RING finger mutants of XIAP also could not promote the degradation of caspase-3. A proteasome inhibitor suppressed the degradation of caspase-3 by XIAP, suggesting the involvement of a ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in the degradation. An in vitro ubiquitination assay revealed that XIAP acts as a ubiquitin-protein ligase for caspase-3. Caspase-3 was ubiquitinated in the presence of XIAP in living cells. Both the association of XIAP with caspase-3 and the RING finger domain of XIAP were essential for ubiquitination. Finally, the RING finger mutants of XIAP were less effective than wild-type XIAP at preventing apoptosis induced by overexpression of either active-form caspase-3 or Fas. These results demonstrate that the ubiquitin-protein ligase activity of XIAP promotes the degradation of caspase-3, which enhances its anti-apoptotic effect.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Members of the LEF-1/TCF family of transcription factors have been implicated in mediating a nuclear response to Wnt signals by association with β-catenin. Consistent with this view, mice carrying mutations in either the Wnt3a gene or in both transcription factor genes Lef1 and Tcf1 were previously found to show a similar defect in the formation of paraxial mesoderm in the gastrulating mouse embryo. In addition, mutations in the Brachyury gene, a direct transcriptional target of LEF-1, were shown to result in mesodermal defects. However, direct evidence for the role of LEF-1 and Brachyury in Wnt3a signaling has been limiting. In this study, we genetically examine the function of LEF-1 in the regulation of Brachyury expression and in signaling by Wnt3a. Analysis of the expression of Brachyury in Lef1−/−Tcf1−/− mice and studies of Brachyury:lacZ transgenes containing wild type or mutated LEF-1 binding sites indicate that Lef1 is dispensable for the initiation, but is required for the maintenance of Brachyury expression. We also show that the expression of an activated form of LEF-1, containing the β-catenin activation domain fused to the amino terminus of LEF-1, can rescue a Wnt3a mutation. Together, these data provide genetic evidence that Lef1 mediates the Wnt3a signal and regulates the stable maintenance of Brachyury expression during gastrulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pituitary cell types arise in a temporally and spatially specific fashion, in response to combinatorial actions of transcription factors induced by transient signaling gradients. The critical transcriptional determinants of the two pituitary cell types that express the pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) gene, the anterior lobe corticotropes, producing adrenocorticotropin, and the intermediate lobe melanotropes, producing melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSHα), have remained unknown. Here, we report that a member of the T-box gene family, Tbx19, which is expressed only in the rostral ventral diencephalon and pituitary gland, commencing on e11.5, marks pituitary cells that will subsequently express the POMC gene and is capable of altering progression of ventral cell types and inducing adrenocorticotropin in rostral tip cells. It is suggested that Tbx19, depending on the presence of synergizing transcription factors, can activate POMC gene expression and repress the α glycoprotein subunit and thyroid-stimulating hormone β promoters.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) expression in the uterus is essential for embryo implantation in mice. Here we describe the spatial and temporal regulation of LIF signaling in vivo by using tissues isolated from uteri on different days over the implantation period. During this time, LIF receptors are expressed predominantly in the luminal epithelium (LE) of the uterus. Isolated epithelium responds to LIF by phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 3, but not by an increase in mitogen-activated protein kinase levels. The related cytokines Il-6, ciliary neurotrophic factor, as well as epidermal growth factor, do not activate Stat3, although epidermal growth factor stimulates mitogen-activated protein kinase. In vivo Stat3 activation is induced by LIF alone, resulting in the localization of Stat3 specifically to the nuclei of the LE coinciding with the onset of uterine receptivity. The responsiveness of the LE to LIF is regulated temporally, with Stat activation being restricted to day 4 of pregnancy despite the presence of constant levels of LIF receptor throughout the preimplantation period. Uterine receptivity is therefore under dual control and is regulated by both the onset of LIF expression in the endometrial glands and the release from inhibition of receptor function in the LE.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Caenorhabditis elegans is an ideal organism for the study of the molecular basis of fundamental biological processes such as germ-line development, especially because of availability of the whole genome sequence and applicability of the RNA interference (RNAi) technique. To identify genes involved in germ-line development, we produced subtracted cDNA pools either enriched for or deprived of the cDNAs from germ-line tissues. We then performed differential hybridization on the high-density cDNA grid, on which about 7,600 nonoverlapping expressed sequence tag (EST) clones were spotted, to identify a set of genes specifically expressed in the germ line. One hundred and sixty-eight clones were then tested with the RNAi technique. Of these, 15 clones showed sterility with a variety of defects in germ-line development. Seven of them led to the production of unfertilized eggs, because of defects in spermatogenesis (4 clones), or defects in the oocytes (3 clones). The other 8 clones led to failure of oogenesis. These failures were caused by germ-line proliferation defect (Glp phenotype), meiotic arrest, and defects in sperm–oocyte switch (Mog phenotype) among others. These results demonstrate the efficacy of the screening strategy using the EST library combined with the RNAi technique in C. elegans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rapid divergence in postmating-prezygotic characters suggests that selection may be responsible for generating reproductive barriers between closely related species. Theoretical models indicate that this rapid divergence could be generated by a series of male adaptations and female counteradaptations by means of sexual selection or conflict, but empirical tests of particular mechanisms are generally lacking. Moreover, although a male–female genotypic interaction in mediating sperm competition attests to an active role of females, molecular or morphological evidence of the female's participation in the coevolutionary process is critically needed. Here we show that postmating-prezygotic variation among populations of cactophilic desert Drosophila reflects divergent coevolutionary trajectories between the sexes. We explicitly test the female's role in intersexual interactions by quantifying differences in a specific postmating-prezygotic reproductive character, the insemination reaction mass, in two species, Drosophila mojavensis and Drosophila arizonae. A series of interpopulation crosses confirmed that population divergence was propelled by male–female interactions, a prerequisite if the selective forces derive from sexual conflicts. An association between the reaction mass and remating and oviposition behavior argues that divergence has been propelled by sexually antagonistic coevolution, and potentially has important implications for speciation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Somatic mosaicism caused by in vivo reversion of inherited mutations has been described in several human genetic disorders. Back mutations resulting in restoration of wild-type sequences and second-site mutations leading to compensatory changes have been shown in mosaic individuals. In most cases, however, the precise genetic mechanisms underlying the reversion events have remained unclear, except for the few instances where crossing over or gene conversion have been demonstrated. Here, we report a patient affected with Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome (WAS) caused by a 6-bp insertion (ACGAGG) in the WAS protein gene, which abrogates protein expression. Somatic mosaicism was documented in this patient whose majority of T lymphocytes expressed nearly normal levels of WAS protein. These lymphocytes were found to lack the deleterious mutation and showed a selective growth advantage in vivo. Analysis of the sequence surrounding the mutation site showed that the 6-bp insertion followed a tandem repeat of the same six nucleotides. These findings strongly suggest that DNA polymerase slippage was the cause of the original germ-line insertion mutation in this family and that the same mechanism was responsible for its deletion in one of the propositus T cell progenitors, thus leading to reversion mosaicism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transcriptional inactivation of one X chromosome in mammalian female somatic cells leads to condensation of the inactive X chromosome into the heterochromatic sex chromatin, or Barr body. Little is known about the molecular composition and structure of the Barr body or the mechanisms leading to its formation in female nuclei. Because human sera from patients with autoimmune diseases often contain antibodies against a variety of cellular components, we reasoned that some autoimmune sera may contain antibodies against proteins associated with the Barr body. Therefore, we screened autoimmune sera by immunofluorescence of human fibroblasts and identified one serum that immunostained a distinct nuclear structure with a size and nuclear localization consistent with the Barr body. The number of these structures was consistent with the number of Barr bodies expected in diploid female fibroblasts containing two to five X chromosomes. Immunostaining with the serum followed by fluorescence in situ hybridization with a probe against XIST RNA demonstrated that the major fluorescent signal from the autoantibody colocalized with XIST RNA. Further analysis of the serum showed that it stains human metaphase chromosomes and a nuclear structure consistent with the inactive X in female mouse fibroblasts. However, it does not exhibit localization to a Barr body-like structure in female mouse embryonic stem cells or in cells from female mouse E7.5 embryos. The lack of staining of the inactive X in cells from female E7.5 embryos suggests the antigen(s) may be involved in X inactivation at a stage subsequent to initiation of X inactivation. This demonstration of an autoantibody recognizing an antigen(s) associated with the Barr body presents a strategy for identifying molecular components of the Barr body and examining the molecular basis of X inactivation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report a pioneering approach using Tetrahymena thermophila that permits rapid identification of genes based on their null or hypomorphic phenotypes. This technique involves cell transformation with a library of plasmids that encode 26S ribosomal subunits containing short insertions. The insertions correspond to antisense sequences for a large number of genes. The majority of cells each acquires a single antisense sequence, which silences a single genomic locus. Because the insertion site within the ribosomal sequence is known, the silenced gene is easily amplified. We demonstrate that this approach can be used to identify genes required for dense core granule exocytosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
All eukaryotic DNA transposons reported so far belong to a single category of elements transposed by the so-called “cut-and-paste” mechanism. Here, we report a previously unknown category of eukaryotic DNA transposons, Helitron, which transpose by rolling-circle replication. Autonomous Helitrons encode a 5′-to-3′ DNA helicase and nuclease/ligase similar to those encoded by known rolling-circle replicons. Helitron-like transposons have conservative 5′-TC and CTRR-3′ termini and do not have terminal inverted repeats. They contain 16- to 20-bp hairpins separated by 10–12 nucleotides from the 3′-end and transpose precisely between the 5′-A and T-3′, with no modifications of the AT target sites. Together with their multiple diverged nonautonomous descendants, Helitrons constitute ≈2% of both the Arabidopsis thaliana and Caenorhabditis elegans genomes and also colonize the Oriza sativa genome. Sequence conservation suggests that Helitrons continue to be transposed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a yeast model system to address transcriptional repression by the retinoblastoma protein (pRB). When fused to the DNA-binding domain of Gal4p (DB-pRB), pRB can repress transcription of reporter genes containing Gal4p binding sites; the histone deacetylase activity encoded by yeast RPD3 is required for DB-pRB repression. Mutation of the LXCXE binding cleft in pRB, a region reported to be required for histone deacetylase recruitment, does not interfere with pRB-mediated repression. From these findings based on yeast experiments, we surmise that the small pocket region of pRB must contain an additional domain that confers histone deacetylase-dependent transcriptional repression. This hypothesis was verified by experiments examining pRB-dependent histone deacetylase association in mammalian cells. In addition to RPD3, repression by pRB in yeast requires MSI1, an ortholog of RbAp48, but not SIN3 or SAP30. By comparing the genetic requirements of DB-pRB repression in yeast to those of other DB-repressor fusions, we can suggest a mechanism by which pRB recruits histone deacetylase activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe a two-hybrid strategy for detection of interactions with transactivator proteins. This repressed transactivator (RTA) system employs the N-terminal repression domain of the yeast general repressor TUP1. TUP1-GAL80 fusion proteins, when coexpressed with GAL4, are shown to inhibit transcription of GAL4-dependent reporter genes. This effect requires the C-terminal 30 residues of GAL4, which are required for interaction with GAL80 in vitro. Furthermore, repression of GAL transcription by TUP1-GAL80 requires SRB10, demonstrating that the TUP1 repression domain, in the context of a two-hybrid interaction, functions by the same mechanism as endogenous TUP1. Using this strategy, we demonstrate interactions between the mammalian basic helix–loop–helix proteins MyoD and E12, and between c-Myc and Bin-1. We have also identified interacting clones from a TUP1-cDNA fusion expression library by using GAL4-VP16 as a bait fusion. These results demonstrate that RTA is generally applicable for identifying and characterizing interactions with transactivator proteins in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In T cell-deficient conditions, naïve T cells undergo spontaneous “homeostatic” proliferation in response to contact with self-MHC/peptide ligands. With the aid of an in vitro system, we show here that homeostatic proliferation is also cytokine-dependent. The cytokines IL-4, IL-7, and IL-15 enhanced homeostatic proliferation of naïve T cells in vitro. Of these cytokines, only IL-7 was found to be critical; thus, naïve T cells underwent homeostatic proliferation in IL-4− and IL-15− hosts but proliferated minimally in IL-7− hosts. In addition to homeostatic proliferation, the prolonged survival of naïve T cells requires IL-7. Thus, naïve T cells disappeared gradually over a 1-month period upon adoptive transfer into IL-7− hosts. These findings indicate that naïve T cells depend on IL-7 for survival and homeostatic proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It has been suggested that anergic T cells may not be only inert cells but may rather play an active role, for example by regulating immune responses. We have previously reported the existence of “anergic” IL-10-producing CD4+ T cells generated in vivo by continuous antigenic stimulation. Using a gene transfer system where the antigen recognized by such T cells is expressed in skeletal muscle by two different DNA viral vectors, we show that these cells not only remain tolerant toward their cognate antigen but also can suppress the immune response of naïve T cells against the immunogenic adenoviral proteins. Furthermore, they can completely inhibit tissue destruction that takes place as a result of an immune response. The system presented here is unique in that the T cells have been anergized in vivo, their antigen specificity and functional status are known, and the amount, form, and timing of antigen expression can be manipulated. This model will therefore permit us to carefully dissect the mechanisms by which these anergic T cells regulate the priming and/or effector function of naïve T cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
On deletion of the gene encoding the constant region of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR)α chain in mature T cells by induced Cre-mediated recombination, the cells lose most of their TCR from the cell surface within 7–10 days, but minute amounts of surface-bound TCRβ chains are retained for long periods of time. In a situation in which cellular influx from the thymus is blocked, TCR-deficient naïve T cells decay over time, the decay rates being faster for CD8+ cells (t1/2 ≈ 16 days) than for CD4+ cells (t1/2 ≈ 46 days). TCR+ naïve cells are either maintained (CD8+) or decay more slowly (CD4+; t1/2 ≈ 78 days.) Numbers of TCR-deficient memory T cells decline very slowly (CD8+ cells; t1/2 ≈ 52 days) or not at all (CD4+ cells), but at the population level, these cells fail to expand as their TCR+ counterparts do. Together with earlier data on T cell maintenance in environments lacking appropriate major histocompatibility complex antigens, these data argue against the possibility that spontaneous ligand-independent signaling by the αβTCR contributes significantly to T-cell homeostasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dendritic cells (DC) are crucial for the induction of immune responses and thus an inviting target for modulation by pathogens. We have previously shown that Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes inhibit the maturation of DCs. Intact P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes can bind directly to CD36 and indirectly to CD51. It is striking that these receptors, at least in part, also mediate the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells. Here we show that antibodies against CD36 or CD51, as well as exposure to early apoptotic cells, profoundly modulate DC maturation and function in response to inflammatory signals. Although modulated DCs still secrete tumor necrosis factor-α, they fail to activate T cells and now secrete IL-10. We therefore propose that intact P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes and apoptotic cells engage similar pathways regulating DC function. These findings may have important consequences for the treatment of malaria and may suggest strategies for modulating pathological immune responses in autoimmune diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have cloned a fusion partner of the MLL gene at 11q23 and identified it as the gene encoding the human formin-binding protein 17, FBP17. It maps to chromosome 9q34 centromeric to ABL. The gene fusion results from a complex chromosome rearrangement that was resolved by fluorescence in situ hybridization with various probes on chromosomes 9 and 11 as an ins(11;9)(q23;q34)inv(11)(q13q23). The rearrangement resulted in a 5′-MLL/FBP17-3′ fusion mRNA. We retrovirally transduced murine-myeloid progenitor cells with MLL/FBP17 to test its transforming ability. In contrast to MLL/ENL, MLL/ELL and other MLL-fusion genes, MLL/FBP17 did not give a positive readout in a serial replating assay. Therefore, we assume that additional cooperating genetic abnormalities might be needed to establish a full malignant phenotype. FBP17 consists of a C-terminal Src homology 3 domain and an N-terminal region that is homologous to the cell division cycle protein, cdc15, a regulator of the actin cytoskeleton in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Both domains are separated by a consensus Rho-binding motif that has been identified in different Rho-interaction partners such as Rhotekin and Rhophilin. We evaluated whether FBP17 and members of the Rho family interact in vivo with a yeast two-hybrid assay. None of the various Rho proteins tested, however, interacted with FBP17. We screened a human kidney library and identified a sorting nexin, SNX2, as a protein interaction partner of FBP17. These data provide a link between the epidermal growth factor receptor pathway and an MLL fusion protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tuberous sclerosis (TS) is characterized by the development of hamartomas in various organs and is caused by a germ-line mutation in either TSC1 or TSC2 tumor suppressor genes. From the symptomatic resemblance among TS patients, involvement of TSC1 and TSC2 products in a common pathway has been suggested. Here, to analyze the function of the Tsc1 product, we established a line of Tsc1 (TSC1 homologue) knockout mouse by gene targeting. Heterozygous Tsc1 mutant (Tsc1+/−) mice developed renal and extra-renal tumors such as hepatic hemangiomas. In these tumors, loss of wild-type Tsc1 allele was observed. Homozygous Tsc1 mutants died around embryonic days 10.5–11.5, frequently associated with neural tube unclosure. As a whole, phenotypes of Tsc1 knockout mice resembled those of Tsc2 knockout mice previously reported, suggesting that the presumptive common pathway for Tsc1 and Tsc2 products may also exist in mice. Notably, however, development of renal tumors in Tsc1+/− mice was apparently slower than that in Tsc2+/− mice. The Tsc1 knockout mouse described here will be a useful model to elucidate the function of Tsc1 and Tsc2 products as well as pathogenesis of TS.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is not known whether the mammalian mechanism of coagulation initiation is conserved in fish. Identification of factor VII is critical in providing evidence for such a mechanism. A cDNA was cloned from a zebrafish (teleost) library that predicted a protein with sequence similarity to human factor VII. Factor VII was shown to be present in zebrafish blood and liver by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Immunodepletion of factor VII from zebrafish plasma selectively inhibited thromboplastin-triggered thrombin generation. Heterologous expression of zebrafish factor VII demonstrated a secreted protein (50 kDa) that reconstituted thromboplastin-triggered thrombin generation in immunodepleted zebrafish plasma. These results suggest conservation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway between zebrafish and humans and add credence to the zebrafish as a model for mammalian hemostasis. The structure of zebrafish factor VIIa predicted by homology modeling was consistent with the overall three-dimensional structure of human factor VIIa. However, amino acid disparities were found in the epidermal growth factor-2/serine protease regions that are present in the human tissue factor–factor VIIa contact surface, suggesting a structural basis for the species specificity of this interaction. In addition, zebrafish factor VII demonstrates that the Gla-EGF-EGF-SP domain structure, which is common to coagulation factors VII, IX, X, and protein C, was present before the radiation of the teleosts from the tetrapods. Identification of zebrafish factor VII significantly narrows the evolutionary window for development of the vertebrate coagulation cascade and provides insight into the structural basis for species specificity in the tissue factor–factor VIIa interaction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nontypeable Hemophilus influenzae (NTHi) is an important human pathogen in both children and adults. In children, it causes otitis media, the most common childhood infection and the leading cause of conductive hearing loss in the United States. In adults, it causes lower respiratory tract infections in the setting of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. The molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of NTHi-induced infections remain undefined, but they may involve activation of NF-κB, a transcriptional activator of multiple host defense genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses. Here, we show that NTHi strongly activates NF-κB in human epithelial cells via two distinct signaling pathways, NF-κB translocation-dependent and -independent pathways. The NF-κB translocation-dependent pathway involves activation of NF-κB inducing kinase (NIK)–IKKα/β complex leading to IκBα phosphorylation and degradation, whereas the NF-κB translocation-independent pathway involves activation of MKK3/6–p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway. Bifurcation of NTHi-induced NIK–IKKα/β-IκBα and MKK3/6–p38 MAP kinase pathways may occur at transforming growth factor-β activated kinase 1 (TAK1). Furthermore, we show that toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) is required for NTHi-induced NF-κB activation. In addition, several key inflammatory mediators including IL-1β, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor-α are up-regulated by NTHi. Finally, P6, a 16-kDa lipoprotein highly conserved in the outer membrane of all NTHi and H. influenzae type b strains, appears to also activate NF-κB via similar signaling pathways. Taken together, our results demonstrate that NTHi activates NF-κB via TLR2–TAK1-dependent NIK–IKKα/β-IκBα and MKK3/6–p38 MAP kinase signaling pathways. These studies may bring new insights into molecular pathogenesis of NTHi-induced infections and open up new therapeutic targets for these diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We previously reported the disruption of the murine gene encoding the transcription factor USF2 and its consequences on glucose-dependent gene regulation in the liver. We report here a peculiar phenotype of Usf2−/− mice that progressively develop multivisceral iron overload; plasma iron overcomes transferrin binding capacity, and nontransferrin-bound iron accumulates in various tissues including pancreas and heart. In contrast, the splenic iron content is strikingly lower in knockout animals than in controls. To identify genes that may account for the abnormalities of iron homeostasis in Usf2−/− mice, we used suppressive subtractive hybridization between livers from Usf2−/− and wild-type mice. We isolated a cDNA encoding a peptide, hepcidin (also referred to as LEAP-1, for liver-expressed antimicrobial peptide), that was very recently purified from human blood ultrafiltrate and from urine as a disulfide-bonded peptide exhibiting antimicrobial activity. Accumulation of iron in the liver has been recently reported to up-regulate hepcidin expression, whereas our data clearly show that a complete defect in hepcidin expression is responsible for progressive tissue iron overload. The striking similarity of the alterations in iron metabolism between HFE knockout mice, a murine model of hereditary hemochromatosis, and the Usf2−/− hepcidin-deficient mice suggests that hepcidin may function in the same regulatory pathway as HFE. We propose that hepcidin acts as a signaling molecule that is required in conjunction with HFE to regulate both intestinal iron absorption and iron storage in macrophages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To achieve an efficient intracellular drug and DNA delivery, attempts were made to target microparticulate drug carriers into cytoplasm bypassing the endocytotic pathway. TAT peptides derived from the HIV-1 TAT protein facilitate intracellular delivery of proteins and small colloidal particles. We demonstrated that relatively large drug carriers, such as 200-nm liposomes, can also be delivered into cells by TAT peptide attached to the liposome surface. Liposomes were fluorescently labeled with membranotropic rhodamine-phosphatidylethanolamine or by entrapping FITC-dextran. Incubation of fluorescent TAT liposomes with mouse Lewis lung carcinoma cells, human breast tumor BT20 cells, and rat cardiac myocyte H9C2 results in intracellular localization of certain liposomes. Steric hindrances for TAT peptide⋅cell interaction (attachment of TAT directly to the liposome surface without spacer or the presence of a high MW polyethylene glycol on the liposome surface) abolish liposome internalization, evidencing the importance of direct contact of TAT peptide with the cell surface. Low temperature or metabolic inhibitors, sodium azide or iodoacetamide, have little influence on the translocation of TAT liposomes into cells, confirming the energy-independent character of this process. The approach may have important implications for drug delivery directly into cell cytoplasm.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The voltage-dependent K+ channel responsible for the slowly activating delayed K+ current IKs is composed of pore-forming KCNQ1 and regulatory KCNE1 subunits, which are mutated in familial forms of cardiac long QT syndrome. Because KCNQ1 and KCNE1 genes also are expressed in epithelial tissues, such as the kidneys and the intestine, we have investigated the adaptation of KCNE1-deficient mice to different K+ and Na+ intakes. On a normal K+ diet, homozygous kcne1−/− mice exhibit signs of chronic volume depletion associated with fecal Na+ and K+ wasting and have lower plasma K+ concentration and higher levels of aldosterone than wild-type mice. Although plasma aldosterone can be suppressed by low K+ diets or stimulated by low Na+ diets, a high K+ diet provokes a tremendous increase of plasma aldosterone levels in kcne1−/− mice as compared with wild-type mice (7.1-fold vs. 1.8-fold) despite lower plasma K+ in kcne1−/− mice. This exacerbated aldosterone production in kcne1−/− mice is accompanied by an abnormally high plasma renin concentration, which could partly explain the hyperaldosteronism. In addition, we found that KCNE1 and KCNQ1 mRNAs are expressed in the zona glomerulosa of adrenal glands where IKs may directly participate in the control of aldosterone production by plasma K+. These results, which show that KCNE1 and IKs are involved in K+ homeostasis, might have important implications for patients with IKs-related long QT syndrome, because hypokalemia is a well known risk factor for the occurrence of torsades de pointes ventricular arrhythmia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chronic hypoxia causes pulmonary hypertension with smooth muscle cell proliferation and matrix deposition in the wall of the pulmonary arterioles. We demonstrate here that hypoxia also induces a pronounced inflammation in the lung before the structural changes of the vessel wall. The proinflammatory action of hypoxia is mediated by the induction of distinct cytokines and chemokines and is independent of tumor necrosis factor-α signaling. We have previously proposed a crucial role for heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in protecting cardiomyocytes from hypoxic stress, and potent anti-inflammatory properties of HO-1 have been reported in models of tissue injury. We thus established transgenic mice that constitutively express HO-1 in the lung and exposed them to chronic hypoxia. HO-1 transgenic mice were protected from the development of both pulmonary inflammation as well as hypertension and vessel wall hypertrophy induced by hypoxia. Significantly, the hypoxic induction of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines was suppressed in HO-1 transgenic mice. Our findings suggest an important protective function of enzymatic products of HO-1 activity as inhibitors of hypoxia-induced vasoconstrictive and proinflammatory pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Replication-competent, attenuated herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) derivatives that contain engineered mutations into the viral γ34.5 virulence gene have been used as oncolytic agents. However, as attenuated mutants often grow poorly, they may not completely destroy some tumors and surviving cancer cells simply regrow. Thus, although HSV-1 γ34.5 mutants can reduce the growth of human tumor xenografts in mice and have passed phase I safety studies, their efficacy is limited because they replicate poorly in many human tumor cells. Previously, we selected for a γ34.5 deletion mutant variant that regained the ability to replicate efficiently in tumor cells. Although this virus contains an extragenic suppressor mutation that confers enhanced growth in tumor cells, it remains attenuated. Here, we demonstrate that the suppressor virus replicates to greater levels in prostate carcinoma cells and, importantly, is a more potent inhibitor of tumor growth in an animal model of human prostate cancer than the γ34.5 parent virus. Thus, genetic selection in cancer cells can be used as a tool to enhance the antitumor activity of a replication-competent virus. The increased therapeutic potency of this oncolytic virus may be useful in the treatment of a wide variety of cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most tumor-associated antigens represent self-proteins and as a result are poorly immunogenic due to immune tolerance. Here we show that tolerance to carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), which is overexpressed by the majority of lethal malignancies, can be reversed by immunization with a CEA-derived peptide. This peptide was altered to make it a more potent T cell antigen and loaded onto dendritic cells (DCs) for delivery as a cellular vaccine. Although DCs are rare in the blood, we found that treatment of advanced cancer patients with Flt3 ligand, a hematopoietic growth factor, expanded DCs 20-fold in vivo. Immunization with these antigen-loaded DCs induced CD8 cytotoxic T lymphocytes that recognized tumor cells expressing endogenous CEA. Staining with peptide-MHC tetramers demonstrated the expansion of CD8 T cells that recognize both the native and altered epitopes and possess an effector cytotoxic T lymphocyte phenotype (CD45RA+CD27−CCR7−). After vaccination, two of 12 patients experienced dramatic tumor regression, one patient had a mixed response, and two had stable disease. Clinical response correlated with the expansion of CD8 tetramer+ T cells, confirming the role of CD8 T cells in this treatment strategy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The infected cell protein 0 (ICP0) of herpes simplex virus 1, a promiscuous transactivator shown to enhance the expression of genes introduced into cells by infection or transfection, interacts with numerous cellular proteins and has been linked to the disruption of ND10 and degradation of several proteins. ICP0 contains a RING finger domain characteristic of a class of E3 ubiquitin ligases. We report that: (i) in infected cells, ICP0 interacts dynamically with proteasomes and is bound to proteasomes in the presence of the proteasome inhibitor MG132. Also in infected cells, cdc34, a polyubiquitinated E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, exhibits increased ICP0-dependent dynamic interaction with proteasomes. (ii) In an in vitro substrate-independent ubiquitination system, the RING finger domain encoded by exon 2 of ICP0 binds cdc34, whereas the carboxyl-terminal domain of ICP0 functions as an E3 ligase independent of the RING finger domain. The results indicate that ICP0 can act as a unimolecular E3 ubiquitin ligase and that it promotes ubiquitin-protein ligation and binds the E2 cdc34. It differs from other unimolecular E3 ligases in that the domain containing the RING finger binds E2, whereas the ligase activity maps to a different domain of the protein. The results also suggest that ICP0 shuttles between nucleus and cytoplasm as a function of its dynamic interactions with proteasomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An emerging theme in medical microbiology is that extensive variation exists in gene content among strains of many pathogenic bacterial species. However, this topic has not been investigated on a genome scale with strains recovered from patients with well-defined clinical conditions. Staphylococcus aureus is a major human pathogen and also causes economically important infections in cows and sheep. A DNA microarray representing >90% of the S. aureus genome was used to characterize genomic diversity, evolutionary relationships, and virulence gene distribution among 36 strains of divergent clonal lineages, including methicillin-resistant strains and organisms causing toxic shock syndrome. Genetic variation in S. aureus is very extensive, with ≈22% of the genome comprised of dispensable genetic material. Eighteen large regions of difference were identified, and 10 of these regions have genes that encode putative virulence factors or proteins mediating antibiotic resistance. We find that lateral gene transfer has played a fundamental role in the evolution of S. aureus. The mec gene has been horizontally transferred into distinct S. aureus chromosomal backgrounds at least five times, demonstrating that methicillin-resistant strains have evolved multiple independent times, rather than from a single ancestral strain. This finding resolves a long-standing controversy in S. aureus research. The epidemic of toxic shock syndrome that occurred in the 1970s was caused by a change in the host environment, rather than rapid geographic dissemination of a new hypervirulent strain. DNA microarray analysis of large samples of clinically characterized strains provides broad insights into evolution, pathogenesis, and disease emergence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
When the illumination of a visual scene changes, the quantity of light reflected from objects is altered. Despite this, the perceived lightness of the objects generally remains constant. This perceptual lightness constancy is thought to be important behaviorally for object recognition. Here we show that interactions from outside the classical receptive fields of neurons in primary visual cortex modulate neural responses in a way that makes them immune to changes in illumination, as is perception. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the responses of neurons in primary visual cortex carry information about surface lightness in addition to information about form. It also suggests that lightness constancy, which is sometimes thought to involve “higher-level” processes, is manifest at the first stage of visual cortical processing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cultured hippocampal slices prepared from apolipoprotein E-deficient mice were exposed to an inhibitor of cathepsins B and L and then processed for immunocytochemistry using antibodies against human paired helical filaments. Dense, AT8-immunopositive deposits were found in the subiculum, stratum oriens of hippocampal field CA1, and the hilus of the dentate gyrus. This distribution agrees with that described for tangles in Alzheimer's disease. The appearance of the labeled structures fell into categories that correspond to previously proposed stages in the progression of intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles in human hippocampus. Electron microscopic analyses confirmed that microtubule disruption and twisted bundles of filaments were present in neurons in the affected areas. These results support the hypothesis that partial lysosomal dysfunction is a contributor to Alzheimer's disease and suggest a simple model for studying an important component of the disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human apolipoprotein (apo) E4, a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), occurs in amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in AD brains; however, its role in the pathogenesis of these lesions is unclear. Here we demonstrate that carboxyl-terminal-truncated forms of apoE, which occur in AD brains and cultured neurons, induce intracellular NFT-like inclusions in neurons. These cytosolic inclusions were composed of phosphorylated tau, phosphorylated neurofilaments of high molecular weight, and truncated apoE. Truncated apoE4, especially apoE4(Δ272–299), induced inclusions in up to 75% of transfected neuronal cells, but not in transfected nonneuronal cells. ApoE4 was more susceptible to truncation than apoE3 and resulted in much greater intracellular inclusion formation. These results suggest that apoE4 preferentially undergoes intracellular processing, creating a bioactive fragment that interacts with cytoskeletal components and induces NFT-like inclusions containing phosphorylated tau and phosphorylated neurofilaments of high molecular weight in neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The absence of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), encoded by the FMR1 gene, is responsible for pathologic manifestations in the Fragile X Syndrome, the most frequent cause of inherited mental retardation. FMRP is an RNA-binding protein associated with polysomes as part of a messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) complex. Although its function is poorly understood, various observations suggest a role in local protein translation at neuronal dendrites and in dendritic spine maturation. We present here the identification of CYFIP1/2 (Cytoplasmic FMRP Interacting Proteins) as FMRP interactors. CYFIP1/2 share 88% amino acid sequence identity and represent the two members in humans of a highly conserved protein family. Remarkably, whereas CYFIP2 also interacts with the FMRP-related proteins FXR1P/2P, CYFIP1 interacts exclusively with FMRP. FMRP–CYFIP interaction involves the domain of FMRP also mediating homo- and heteromerization, thus suggesting a competition between interaction among the FXR proteins and interaction with CYFIP. CYFIP1/2 are proteins of unknown function, but CYFIP1 has recently been shown to interact with the small GTPase Rac1, which is implicated in development and maintenance of neuronal structures. Consistent with FMRP and Rac1 localization in dendritic fine structures, CYFIP1/2 are present in synaptosomal extracts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Active immunization with the amyloid β (Aβ) peptide has been shown to decrease brain Aβ deposition in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease and certain peripherally administered anti-Aβ antibodies were shown to mimic this effect. In exploring factors that alter Aβ metabolism and clearance, we found that a monoclonal antibody (m266) directed against the central domain of Aβ was able to bind and completely sequester plasma Aβ. Peripheral administration of m266 to PDAPP transgenic mice, in which Aβ is generated specifically within the central nervous system (CNS), results in a rapid 1,000-fold increase in plasma Aβ, due, in part, to a change in Aβ equilibrium between the CNS and plasma. Although peripheral administration of m266 to PDAPP mice markedly reduces Aβ deposition, m266 did not bind to Aβ deposits in the brain. Thus, m266 appears to reduce brain Aβ burden by altering CNS and plasma Aβ clearance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stress early in postnatal life may result in long-term memory deficits and selective loss of hippocampal neurons. The mechanisms involved are poorly understood, but they may involve molecules and processes in the immature limbic system that are activated by stressful challenges. We report that administration of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), the key limbic stress modulator, to the brains of immature rats reproduced the consequences of early-life stress, reducing memory functions throughout life. These deficits were associated with progressive loss of hippocampal CA3 neurons and chronic up-regulation of hippocampal CRH expression. Importantly, they did not require the presence of stress levels of glucocorticoids. These findings indicate a critical role for CRH in the mechanisms underlying the long-term effects of early-life stress on hippocampal integrity and function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have analyzed the developmental molecular programs of the mouse hippocampus, a cortical structure critical for learning and memory, by means of large-scale DNA microarray techniques. Of 11,000 genes and expressed sequence tags examined, 1,926 showed dynamic changes during hippocampal development from embryonic day 16 to postnatal day 30. Gene-cluster analysis was used to group these genes into 16 distinct clusters with striking patterns that appear to correlate with major developmental hallmarks and cellular events. These include genes involved in neuronal proliferation, differentiation, and synapse formation. A complete list of the transcriptional changes has been compiled into a comprehensive gene profile database (http://BrainGenomics.Princeton.edu), which should prove valuable in advancing our understanding of the molecular and genetic programs underlying both the development and the functions of the mammalian brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Biochemical and genetic studies have implicated α-gustducin as a key component in the transduction of both bitter or sweet taste. Yet, α-gustducin-null mice are not completely unresponsive to bitter or sweet compounds. To gain insights into how gustducin mediates responses to bitter and sweet compounds, and to elicit the nature of the gustducin-independent pathways, we generated a dominant-negative form of α-gustducin and expressed it as a transgene from the α-gustducin promoter in both wild-type and α-gustducin-null mice. A single mutation, G352P, introduced into the C-terminal region of α-gustducin critical for receptor interaction rendered the mutant protein unresponsive to activation by taste receptor, but left its other functions intact. In control experiments, expression of wild-type α-gustducin as a transgene in α-gustducin-null mice fully restored responsiveness to bitter and sweet compounds, formally proving that the targeted deletion of the α-gustducin gene caused the taste deficits of the null mice. In contrast, transgenic expression of the G352P mutant did not restore responsiveness of the null mice to either bitter or sweet compounds. Furthermore, in the wild-type background, the mutant transgene inhibited endogenous α-gustducin's interactions with taste receptors, i.e., it acted as a dominant-negative. That the mutant transgene further diminished the residual bitter and sweet taste responsiveness of the α-gustducin-null mice suggests that other guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins expressed in the α-gustducin lineage of taste cells mediate these responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Single interneurons influence thousands of postsynaptic principal cells, and the control of interneuronal excitability is an important regulator of the computational properties of the hippocampus. However, the mechanisms underlying long-term alterations in the input–output functions of interneurons are not fully understood. We report a mechanism of interneuronal plasticity that leads to the functional enhancement of the gain of glutamatergic inputs in the absence of long-term potentiation of the excitatory synaptic currents. Interneurons in the dentate gyrus exhibit a characteristic, limited (≈8 mV) depolarization of their resting membrane potential after high-frequency stimulation of the perforant path. The depolarization can be observed with either whole-cell or perforated patch electrodes, and it lasts in excess of 3 h. The long-term depolarization is specific to interneurons, because granule cells do not show it. The depolarization requires the activation of Ca2+-permeable α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors and the rise of intracellular Ca2+, but not N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. Data on the maintenance of the depolarization point to a major role for a long-term change in the rate of electrogenic Na+/K+-ATPase pump function in interneurons. As a result of the depolarization, interneurons after the tetanus respond with action potential discharges to previously subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), even though the EPSPs are not potentiated. These results demonstrate that the plastic nature of the interneuronal resting membrane potential underlies a unique form of long-term regulation of the gain of excitatory inputs to γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The estrogen-related receptors (ERRα, ERRβ, and ERRγ) form a family of orphan nuclear receptors that share significant amino acid identity with the estrogen receptors, but for which physiologic roles remain largely unknown. By using a peptide sensor assay, we have identified the stilbenes diethylstilbestrol (DES), tamoxifen (TAM), and 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT) as high-affinity ligands for ERRγ. In direct binding assays, 4-OHT had a Kd value of 35 nM, and both DES and TAM displaced radiolabeled 4-OHT with Ki values of 870 nM. In cell-based assays, 4-OHT binding caused a dissociation of the complex between ERRγ and the steroid receptor coactivator-1, and led to an inhibition of the constitutive transcriptional activity of ERRγ. ERRα did not bind 4-OHT, but replacing a single amino acid predicted to be in the ERRα ligand-binding pocket with the corresponding ERRγ residue allowed high-affinity 4-OHT binding. These results demonstrate the existence of high-affinity ligands for the ERR family of orphan receptors, and identify 4-OHT as a molecule that can regulate the transcriptional activity of ERRγ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The liver responds to multiple types of injury with an extraordinarily well orchestrated and tightly regulated form of regeneration. The response to partial hepatectomy has been used as a model system to elucidate the molecular basis of this regenerative response. In this study, we used cyclooxygenase (COX)-selective antagonists and -null mice to determine the role of prostaglandin signaling in the response of liver to partial hepatectomy. The results show that liver regeneration is markedly impaired when both COX-1 and COX-2 are inhibited by indocin or by a combination of the COX-1 selective antagonist, SC-560, and the COX-2 selective antagonist, SC-236. Inhibition of COX-2 alone partially inhibits regeneration whereas inhibition of COX-1 alone tends to delay regeneration. Neither the rise in IL-6 nor the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) that is seen during liver regeneration is inhibited by indocin or the selective COX antagonists. In contrast, indocin treatment prevents the activation of CREB by phosphorylation that occurs during hepatic regeneration. These data indicate that prostaglandin signaling is required during liver regeneration, that COX-2 plays a particularly important role but COX-1 is also involved, and implicate the activation of CREB rather than STAT3 as the mediator of prostaglandin signaling during liver regeneration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
All higher life forms critically depend on hormones being rhythmically released by the anterior pituitary. The proper functioning of this master gland is dynamically controlled by a complex set of regulatory mechanisms that ultimately determine the fine tuning of the excitable endocrine cells, all of them heterogeneously distributed throughout the gland. Here, we provide evidence for an intrapituitary communication system by which information is transferred via the network of nonendocrine folliculostellate (FS) cells. Local electrical stimulation of FS cells in acute pituitary slices triggered cytosolic calcium waves, which propagated to other FS cells by signaling through gap junctions. Calcium wave initiation was because of the membrane excitability of FS cells, hitherto classified as silent cells. FS cell coupling could relay information between opposite regions of the gland. Because FS cells respond to central and peripheral stimuli and dialogue with endocrine cells, the form of large-scale intrapituitary communication described here may provide an efficient mechanism that orchestrates anterior pituitary functioning in response to physiological needs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Portal hypertension resulting from increased intrahepatic resistance is a common complication of chronic liver diseases and a leading cause of death in patients with liver cirrhosis, a scarring process of the liver that includes components of both increased fibrogenesis and wound contraction. A reduced production of nitric oxide (NO) resulting from an impaired enzymatic function of endothelial NO synthase and an increased contraction of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) have been demonstrated to contribute to high intrahepatic resistance in the cirrhotic liver. 2-(Acetyloxy) benzoic acid 3-(nitrooxymethyl) phenyl ester (NCX-1000) is a chemical entity obtained by adding an NO-releasing moiety to ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a compound that is selectively metabolized by hepatocytes. In this study we have examined the effect of NCX-1000 and UDCA on liver fibrosis and portal hypertension induced by i.p. injection of carbon tetrachloride in rats. Our results demonstrated that although both treatments reduced liver collagen deposition, NCX-1000, but not UDCA, prevented ascite formation and reduced intrahepatic resistance in carbon tetrachloride-treated rats as measured by assessing portal perfusion pressure. In contrast to UDCA, NCX-1000 inhibited HSC contraction and exerted a relaxing effect similar to the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine. HSCs were able to metabolize NCX-1000 and release nitrite/nitrate in cell supernatants. In aggregate these data indicate that NCX-1000, releasing NO into the liver microcirculation, may provide a novel therapy for the treatment of patients with portal hypertension.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The bronze (bz) locus exhibits the highest rate of recombination of any gene in higher plants. To investigate the possible basis of this high rate of recombination, we have analyzed the physical organization of the region around the bz locus. Two adjacent bacterial artificial chromosome clones, comprising a 240-kb contig centered around the Bz-McC allele, were isolated, and 60 kb of contiguous DNA spanning the two bacterial artificial chromosome clones was sequenced. We find that the bz locus lies in an unusually gene-rich region of the maize genome. Ten genes, at least eight of which are shown to be transcribed, are contained in a 32-kb stretch of DNA that is uninterrupted by retrotransposons. We have isolated nearly full length cDNAs corresponding to the five proximal genes in the cluster. The average intertranscript distance between them is just 1 kb, revealing a surprisingly compact packaging of adjacent genes in this part of the genome. At least 11 small insertions, including several previously described miniature inverted repeat transposable elements, were detected in the introns and 3′ untranslated regions of genes and between genes. The gene-rich region is flanked at the proximal and distal ends by retrotransposon blocks. Thus, the maize genome appears to have scattered regions of high gene density similar to those found in other plants. The unusually high rate of intragenic recombination seen in bz may be related to the very high gene density of the region.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have cloned two gibberellin (GA) 3β-hydroxylase genes, OsGA3ox1 and OsGA3ox2, from rice by screening a genomic library with a DNA fragment obtained by PCR using degenerate primers. We have used full-scan GC-MS and Kovats retention indices to show function for the two encoded recombinant fusion proteins. Both proteins show 3β-hydroxylase activity for the steps GA20 to GA1, GA5 to GA3, GA44 to GA38, and GA9 to GA4. In addition, indirect evidence suggests that the OsGA3ox1 protein also has 2,3-desaturase activity, which catalyzes the steps GA9 to 2,3-dehydro-GA9 and GA20 to GA5 (2,3-dehydro GA20), and 2β-hydroxylase activity, which catalyzes the steps GA1 to GA8 and GA4 to GA34. Molecular and linkage analysis maps the OsGA3ox1 gene to the distal end of the short arm of chromosome 5; the OsGA3ox2 gene maps to the distal end of the short arm of chromosome 1 that corresponds to the D18 locus. The association of the OsGA3ox2 gene with the d18 locus is confirmed by sequence and complementation analysis of three d18 alleles. Complementation of the d18-AD allele with the OxGA3ox2 gene results in transgenic plants with a normal phenotype. Although both genes show transient expression, the highest level for OsGA3ox1 is from unopened flower. The highest level for OsGA3ox2 is from elongating leaves.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Peppermint (Mentha × piperita L.) was independently transformed with a homologous sense version of the 1-deoxy-d-xylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase cDNA and with a homologous antisense version of the menthofuran synthase cDNA, both driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. Two groups of transgenic plants were regenerated in the reductoisomerase experiments, one of which remained normal in appearance and development; another was deficient in chlorophyll production and grew slowly. Transgenic plants of normal appearance and growth habit expressed the reductoisomerase transgene strongly and constitutively, as determined by RNA blot analysis and direct enzyme assay, and these plants accumulated substantially more essential oil (about 50% yield increase) without change in monoterpene composition compared with wild-type. Chlorophyll-deficient plants did not afford detectable reductoisomerase mRNA or enzyme activity and yielded less essential oil than did wild-type plants, indicating cosuppression of the reductoisomerase gene. Plants transformed with the antisense version of the menthofuran synthase cDNA were normal in appearance but produced less than half of this undesirable monoterpene oil component than did wild-type mint grown under unstressed or stressed conditions. These experiments demonstrate that essential oil quantity and quality can be regulated by metabolic engineering. Thus, alteration of the committed step of the mevalonate-independent pathway for supply of terpenoid precursors improves flux through the pathway that leads to increased monoterpene production, and antisense manipulation of a selected downstream monoterpene biosynthetic step leads to improved oil composition.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cochlea uses active amplification to capture faint sounds. It has been proposed that the amplifier comprises a set of self-tuned critical oscillators: each hair cell contains a force-generating dynamical system that is maintained at the threshold of an oscillatory instability, or Hopf bifurcation. While the active response to a pure tone provides frequency selectivity, exquisite sensitivity, and wide dynamic range, its intrinsic nonlinearity causes tones of different frequency to interfere with one another in the cochlea. Here we determine the response to two tones, which provides a framework for understanding how the ear processes the more complex sounds of speech and music. Our calculations of two-tone suppression and the spectrum of distortion products generated by a critical oscillator accord with experimental observations of basilar membrane motion and the nervous response. We discuss how the response of a set of self-tuned oscillators, covering a range of characteristic frequencies, represents the structure of a complex sound. The frequency components of the stimulus can be inferred from the timing of neural spikes elicited by the vibrating hair cells. Passive prefiltering by the basilar membrane improves pitch discrimination by reducing interference between tones. Our analysis provides a general framework for examining the relation between the physical nature of the peripheral detection apparatus and psychophysical phenomena such as the sensation of dissonance and auditory illusions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An unusual micelle was discovered in mixtures of the nonionic detergent octaethyleneglycol-mono-n-dodecylether with disaturated phospholipids such as 1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine or 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine in water. These mixtures undergo a structural transition upon cooling through the chain-melting temperatures of the respective phospholipids, resulting in the formation of mixed micelles. Structural features of the micellar particles were studied here by synchrotron x-ray scattering. The translucent micellar solutions showed characteristic wide-angle reflections that were attributed to ordered hydrocarbon chains, whereas the absence of small-angle x-ray reflections indicated that there is no long-range order in these mixtures. The presence of ordered phospholipid acyl chains was confirmed by differential scanning calorimetry and isothermal titration calorimetry. The endothermic differential scanning calorimetry signals observed in the up-scan mode were tentatively ascribed to chain melting and mixing of the components. Isothermal titration of the mixed-micellar solutions into an excess of the detergent octaethyleneglycol-mono-n-dodecylether resulted in sudden uptake of the latent heat by the gel-state phospholipids. The heat uptake per mol of phospholipid decreased with increasing detergent/phospholipid molar ratio. A simple geometric model is presented assuming that the dominating particle species in the mixtures is a discoidal phospholipid aggregate with ordered acyl chains, surrounded by a toroidal detergent hoop. The model implies that the fraction of ordered phospholipid chains decreases with increasing detergent/phospholipid molar ratio, in agreement with the calorimetric results and high-resolution NMR spectroscopy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sponges (Porifera), the simplest and earliest multicellular organisms, are thought to have evolved from their unicellular ancestors about 1 billion years ago by developing cell-recognition and adhesion mechanisms to discriminate against “non-self.” Consequently, they are used as models for investigating recognition phenomena. Cellular adhesion of marine sponges is an event involving adherence of extracellular proteoglycan-like molecules, otherwise known as aggregation factors (AFs). In a calcium-independent process the AFs adhere to the cell surface, and in a calcium-dependent process they exhibit AF self-association. A mechanism which has been implied but not definitely proven to play a role in the calcium-dependent event is self-recognition of defined carbohydrate epitopes. For the red beard sponge, Microciona prolifera, two carbohydrate epitopes, a sulfated disaccharide and a pyruvylated trisaccharide, have been implicated in cellular adhesion. To investigate this phenomenon a system has been designed, by using surface plasmon resonance detection, to mimic the role of carbohydrates in cellular adhesion of M. prolifera. The results show self-recognition of the sulfated disaccharide to be a major force behind the calcium-dependent event. The interaction is not simply based on electrostatic interactions, as other sulfated carbohydrates analyzed by using this procedure did not self-associate. Furthermore, the interaction is completely eradicated on substitution of Ca2+ ions by either Mg2+ or Mn2+ ions. This physiologically relevant recognition mechanism confirms the existence of true carbohydrate self-recognition, and may have significant implications for the role of carbohydrates in cellular recognition of higher organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA microarrays represent an important new method for determining the complete expression profile of a cell. In “spotted” microarrays, slides carrying spots of target DNA are hybridized to fluorescently labeled cDNA from experimental and control cells and the arrays are imaged at two or more wavelengths. In this paper, we perform statistical analysis on images of microarrays and show that quantitating the amount of fluorescent DNA bound to microarrays is subject to considerable uncertainty because of large and small-scale intensity fluctuations within spots, nonadditive background, and fabrication artifacts. Pixel-by-pixel analysis of individual spots can be used to estimate these sources of error and establish the precision and accuracy with which gene expression ratios are determined. Simple weighting schemes based on these estimates are effective in improving significantly the quality of microarray data as it accumulates in a multiexperiment database. We propose that error estimates from image-based metrics should be one component in an explicitly probabilistic scheme for the analysis of DNA microarray data.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A new mechanism for regulating the stability of colloidal particles has been discovered. Negligibly charged colloidal microspheres, which flocculate when suspended alone in aqueous solution, undergo a remarkable stabilizing transition upon the addition of a critical volume fraction of highly charged nanoparticle species. Zeta potential analysis revealed that these microspheres exhibited an effective charge buildup in the presence of such species. Scanning angle reflectometry measurements indicated, however, that these nanoparticle species did not adsorb on the microspheres under the experimental conditions of interest. It is therefore proposed that highly charged nanoparticles segregate to regions near negligibly charged microspheres because of their repulsive Coulombic interactions in solution. This type of nanoparticle haloing provides a previously unreported method for tailoring the behavior of complex fluids.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using DNA microarray screening (GeneFilter 211, Research Genetics, Huntsville, AL) of mRNA from primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), we identified 52 genes with significantly altered expression under shear stress [25 dynes/cm2 for 6 or 24 h (1 dyne = 10 μN), compared with matched stationary controls]; including several genes not heretofore recognized to be shear stress responsive. We examined mRNA expression of nine genes by Northern blot analysis, which confirmed the results obtained on DNA microarrays. Thirty-two genes were up-regulated (by more than 2-fold), the most enhanced being cytochromes P450 1A1 and 1B1, zinc finger protein EZF/GKLF, glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper protein, argininosuccinate synthase, and human prostaglandin transporter. Most dramatically decreased (by more than 2-fold) were connective tissue growth factor, endothelin-1, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, and spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase. The changes observed suggest several potential mechanisms for increased NO production under shear stress in endothelial cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We introduce a general technique for making statistical inference from clustering tools applied to gene expression microarray data. The approach utilizes an analysis of variance model to achieve normalization and estimate differential expression of genes across multiple conditions. Statistical inference is based on the application of a randomization technique, bootstrapping. Bootstrapping has previously been used to obtain confidence intervals for estimates of differential expression for individual genes. Here we apply bootstrapping to assess the stability of results from a cluster analysis. We illustrate the technique with a publicly available data set and draw conclusions about the reliability of clustering results in light of variation in the data. The bootstrapping procedure relies on experimental replication. We discuss the implications of replication and good design in microarray experiments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tyramine, β-phenylethylamine, tryptamine, and octopamine are biogenic amines present in trace levels in mammalian nervous systems. Although some “trace amines” have clearly defined roles as neurotransmitters in invertebrates, the extent to which they function as true neurotransmitters in vertebrates has remained speculative. Using a degenerate PCR approach, we have identified 15 G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) from human and rodent tissues. Together with the orphan receptor PNR, these receptors form a subfamily of rhodopsin GPCRs distinct from, but related to the classical biogenic amine receptors. We have demonstrated that two of these receptors bind and/or are activated by trace amines. The cloning of mammalian GPCRs for trace amines supports a role for trace amines as neurotransmitters in vertebrates. Three of the four human receptors from this family are present in the amygdala, possibly linking trace amine receptors to affective disorders. The identification of this family of receptors should rekindle the investigation of the roles of trace amines in mammalian nervous systems and may potentially lead to the development of novel therapeutics for a variety of indications.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structure of an intermediate in the initiation to elongation transition of Escherichia coli RNA polymerase has been visualized through region-specific DNA cleavage by the hydroxyl radical reagent FeBABE. FeBABE was tethered to specific sites of the σ70 subunit and incorporated into two specialized paused elongation complexes that obligatorily retain the σ70 initiation subunit and are targets for modification by lambdoid phage late gene antiterminators. The FeBABE cleavage pattern reveals structures similar to open complex, except for notable changes to region 3 of σ70 that might reflect the presence of stably bound transcript. Binding of the antiterminator protein Q displaces the reactivity of FeBABE conjugated to region 4 of σ70, suggesting that σ70 subunit rearrangement is a step in conversion of RNAP to the antiterminating form.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chitinase B (ChiB) from Serratia marcescens is a family 18 exo-chitinase whose catalytic domain has a TIM-barrel fold with a tunnel-shaped active site. We have solved structures of three ChiB complexes that reveal details of substrate binding, substrate-assisted catalysis, and product displacement. The structure of an inactive ChiB mutant (E144Q) complexed with a pentameric substrate (binding in subsites −2 to +3) shows closure of the “roof” of the active site tunnel. It also shows that the sugar in the −1 position is distorted to a boat conformation, thus providing structural evidence in support of a previously proposed catalytic mechanism. The structures of the active enzyme complexed to allosamidin (an analogue of a proposed reaction intermediate) and of the active enzyme soaked with pentameric substrate show events after cleavage of the glycosidic bond. The latter structure shows reopening of the roof of the active site tunnel and enzyme-assisted product displacement in the +1 and +2 sites, allowing a water molecule to approach the reaction center. Catalysis is accompanied by correlated structural changes in the core of the TIM barrel that involve conserved polar residues whose functions were hitherto unknown. These changes simultaneously contribute to stabilization of the reaction intermediate and alternation of the pKa of the catalytic acid during the catalytic cycle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many sequences in eukaryotic genomes have the potential to adopt a left-handed Z-DNA conformation. We used a previously described assay based on the binding of a mAb to Z-DNA to inquire whether Z-DNA is formed in the rat nucleolin (Ncl) gene in metabolically active, permeabilized nuclei. Using real-time PCR to measure Z-DNA formation, the potential Z-DNA sequence element Z1 [(CA)10(CG)8] in the promoter region was found to be enriched 571- to 4,040-fold in different cell lines, whereas Z2 [AC(GC)5CCGT(CG)2] in the first intron was enriched 12- to 34-fold. Ncl promoter activity was 1.5- to 16-fold stronger than that of the simian virus 40 promoter and enhancer. This activity was further increased 36–54% when Z1 was deleted. The inhibitory effect of Z1 on Ncl promoter activity was independent of location and orientation. The Ncl Z1 element is identical to the genetic marker D9Arb5. Five allelic variants of Z1 were identified by sequence analysis of genomic DNA from various rats. The two most common alleles differed significantly (up to 27%) in their capacity to inhibit Ncl promoter activity. This finding suggests that differences in Z-DNA formation by polymorphic dinucleotide repeats may be one of the factors contributing to genetic variation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
PAS domains regulate the function of many intracellular signaling pathways in response to both extrinsic and intrinsic stimuli. PAS domain-regulated histidine kinases are common in prokaryotes and control a wide range of fundamental physiological processes. Similarly regulated kinases are rare in eukaryotes and are to date completely absent in mammals. PAS kinase (PASK) is an evolutionarily conserved gene product present in yeast, flies, and mammals. The amino acid sequence of PASK specifies two PAS domains followed by a canonical serine/threonine kinase domain, indicating that it might represent the first mammalian PAS-regulated protein kinase. We present evidence that the activity of PASK is regulated by two mechanisms. Autophosphorylation at two threonine residues located within the activation loop significantly increases catalytic activity. We further demonstrate that the N-terminal PAS domain is a cis regulator of PASK catalytic activity. When the PAS domain-containing region is removed, enzyme activity is significantly increased, and supplementation of the purified PAS-A domain in trans selectively inhibits PASK catalytic activity. These studies define a eukaryotic signaling pathway suitable for studies of PAS domains in a purified in vitro setting.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expression of the tryptophanase (tna) operon of Escherichia coli is regulated by catabolite repression and tryptophan-induced transcription antitermination. In a previous study, we reproduced the regulatory features of this operon observed in vivo by using an in vitro S-30 system. We also found that, under inducing conditions, the leader peptidyl-tRNA (TnaC-peptidyl-tRNAPro) is not cleaved; it accumulates in the S-30 reaction mixture. In this paper, we examine the requirements for TnaC-peptidyl-tRNAPro accumulation and cleavage, in vitro. We show that this peptidyl-tRNA remains bound to the translating ribosome. Removal of free tryptophan and addition of release factor 1 or 2 leads to hydrolysis of TnaC-peptidyl-tRNAPro and release of TnaC from the ribosome-mRNA complex. Release factor-mediated cleavage is prevented by the addition of tryptophan. TnaC of the ribosome-bound TnaC-peptidyl-tRNAPro was transferable to puromycin. This transfer was also blocked by tryptophan. Tests with various tryptophan analogs as substitutes for tryptophan revealed the existence of strict structural requirements for tryptophan action. Our findings demonstrate that the addition of tryptophan to ribosomes bearing nascent TnaC-peptidyl-tRNAPro inhibits both TnaC peptidyl-tRNAPro hydrolysis and TnaC peptidyl transfer. The associated translating ribosome therefore remains attached to the leader transcript where it blocks Rho factor binding and subsequent transcription termination.
DOC DONE!Abstract
On the basis of the recent atomic-resolution x-ray structure of the 50S ribosomal subunit, residues A2451 and G2447 of 23S rRNA were proposed to participate directly in ribosome-catalyzed peptide bond formation. We have examined the peptidyltransferase and protein synthesis activities of ribosomes carrying mutations at these nucleotides. In Escherichia coli, pure mutant ribosome populations carrying either the G2447A or G2447C mutations maintained cell viability. In vitro, the G2447A ribosomes supported protein synthesis at a rate comparable to that of wild-type ribosomes. In single-turnover peptidyltransferase assays, G2447A ribosomes were shown to have essentially unimpaired peptidyltransferase activity at saturating substrate concentrations. All three base changes at the universally conserved A2451 conferred a dominant lethal phenotype when expressed in E. coli. Nonetheless, significant amounts of 2451 mutant ribosomes accumulated in polysomes, and all three 2451 mutations stimulated frameshifting and readthrough of stop codons in vivo. Furthermore, ribosomes carrying the A2451U transversion synthesized full-length β-lactamase chains in vitro. Pure mutant ribosome populations with changes at A2451 were generated by reconstituting Bacillus stearothermophilus 50S subunits from in vitro transcribed 23S rRNA. In single-turnover peptidyltransferase assays, the rate of peptide bond formation was diminished 3- to 14-fold by these mutations. Peptidyltransferase activity and in vitro β-lactamase synthesis by ribosomes with mutations at A2451 or G2447 were highly resistant to chloramphenicol. The significant levels of peptidyltransferase activity of ribosomes with mutations at A2451 and G2447 need to be reconciled with the roles proposed for these residues in catalysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Poxviruses express a family of secreted proteins that bind with high affinity to chemokines and antagonize the interaction with their cognate G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). These viral inhibitors are novel in structure and, unlike cellular chemokine receptors, are able to specifically interact with most, if not all, CC-chemokines. We therefore sought to define the structural features of CC-chemokines that facilitate this broad-spectrum interaction. Here, we identify the residues present on human monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) that are required for high-affinity interaction with the vaccinia virus 35-kDa CC-chemokine binding protein (VV-35kDa). Not only do these residues correspond to those required for interaction with the cognate receptor CCR2b but they are also conserved among many CC-chemokines. Thus, the results provide a structural basis for the ability of VV-35kDa to promiscuously recognize CC-chemokines and block binding to their receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The activity of the small GTPase, Rac1, plays a role in various cellular processes including cytoskeletal rearrangement, gene transcription, and malignant transformation. In this report constitutively active Rac1 (Rac V12) is shown to stimulate the activation of STAT3, a member of the family of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs). The activity of Rac1 leads to STAT3 translocation to the nucleus coincident with STAT3-dependent gene expression. The expression of Vav (Δ1–187), a constitutively active guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the Rho GTPases, or activated forms of Ras or Rho family members, leads to STAT3-specific activation. The activation of STAT3 requires tyrosine phosphorylation at residue 705, but is not dependent on phosphorylation of Ser-727. Our studies indicate that Rac1 induces STAT3 activation through an indirect mechanism that involves the autocrine production and action of IL-6, a known mediator of STAT3 response. Rac V12 expression results in the induction of the IL-6 and IL-6 receptor genes and neutralizing antibodies directed against the IL-6 receptor block Rac1-induced STAT3 activation. Furthermore, inhibition of the nuclear factor-κB activation or disruption of IL-6-mediated signaling through the expression of IκBα S32AS36A and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 , respectively, blocks Rac1-induced STAT3 activation. These findings elucidate a mechanism dependent on the induction of an autocrine IL-6 activation loop through which Rac1 mediates STAT3 activation establishing a link between oncogenic GTPase activity and Janus kinase/STAT signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The bacterial TATAAT −10 region sequence was the first promoter element to be identified, but how it functions is still not clear. Because the duplex element is melted during initiation, the effects of substitutions were studied in both single-and double-strand contexts. Band-shift results were particularly unexpected in the context of melted DNA. The effect of the lac UV5-melted −10 region on polymerase binding was found to include a large sequence nonspecific contribution. Instead the dominant role of single-stranded −10 region nucleotides was in directing the isomerization of the RNA polymerase to its heparin resistant form. This role becomes minimal when the melting is extended beyond the −10 region to encompass the transcription start site, as in the final open complex. The duplex binding results are in agreement with previous reports that showed positions −12T and −11A are of primary importance for promoter recognition. Thus the consensus −10 region sequences function in two ways, both before full promoter melting. They stabilize initial polymerase binding via duplex interactions and subsequently as single-stranded DNA they promote enzyme isomerization to the functional form.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mouse Notch1, which plays an important role in cell fate determination in development, is proteolytically processed within its transmembrane domain by unidentified γ-secretase-like activity that depends on presenilin. To study this proteolytic event, we established a cell-free Notch cleavage assay system using the membrane fraction of fibroblast transfectants of various Notch constructs with deletion of the extracellular portion (Notch ΔE). The cytoplasmic portion of Notch1 ΔE was released from the membrane upon incubation at 37°C, which was inhibited by the specific γ-secretase inhibitor, MW167, or by overexpression of dominant negative presenilin1. Likewise, other members of mouse Notch family were proteolytically cleaved in a presenilin-dependent, MW167-sensitive manner in vivo as well as in the cell-free Notch ΔE cleavage assay system. All four members of the mouse Notch family migrated to the nucleus and activated the transcription from the promoter carrying the RBP-J consensus sequences after they were released from the membrane. These results demonstrate the conserved biochemical mechanism of signal transduction among mammalian Notch family members.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chorismate mutase acts at the first branch-point of aromatic amino acid biosynthesis and catalyzes the conversion of chorismate to prephenate. The results of molecular dynamics simulations of the substrate in solution and in the active site of chorismate mutase are reported. Two nonreactive conformers of chorismate are found to be more stable than the reactive pseudodiaxial chair conformer in solution. It is shown by QM/MM molecular dynamics simulations, which take into account the motions of the enzyme, that when these inactive conformers are bound to the active site, they are rapidly converted to the reactive chair conformer. This result suggests that one contribution of the enzyme is to bind the more prevalent nonreactive conformers and transform them into the active form in a step before the chemical reaction. The motion of the reactive chair conformer in the active site calculated by using the QM/MM potential generates transient structures that are closer to the transition state than is the stable CHAIR conformer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The major DNA photoproduct of dormant, UV-irradiated Bacillus subtilis spores is the thymine dimer 5-thyminyl-5,6-dihydrothymine [spore photoproduct (SP)]. During spore germination, SP is reversed to two intact thymines in situ by the DNA repair enzyme SP lyase, an S-adenosylmethionine (S-AdoMet)-dependent iron-sulfur ([Fe-S]) protein encoded by the splB gene. In the present work, cross-linking, SDS/PAGE, and size exclusion chromatography revealed that SplB protein dimerized when incubated with iron and sulfide under anaerobic reducing conditions. SplB isolated under aerobic conditions generated an EPR spectrum consistent with that of a partially degraded [3Fe-4S] center, and reduction of SplB with dithionite shifted the spectrum to that of a [4Fe-4S] center. Addition of S-AdoMet to SplB converted some of the [4Fe-4S] centers to an EPR-silent form consistent with electron donation to S-AdoMet. HPLC and electrospray ionization MS analyses showed that SP lyase cleaved S-AdoMet to generate 5′-deoxyadenosine. The results indicate that (i) SP lyase is a homodimer of SplB; (ii) dimer formation is coordinated by a [4Fe-4S] center; and (iii) the reduced [4Fe-4S] center is capable of donating electrons to S-AdoMet to generate a 5′-adenosyl radical that is then used for the in situ reversal of SP. Thus, SP lyase belongs to the “radical SAM” superfamily of enzymes that use [Fe-S] centers and S-AdoMet to generate adenosyl radicals to effect catalysis. SP lyase is unique in being the first and only DNA repair enzyme known to function via this novel enzymatic mechanism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The interaction of the multimodular heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) K protein with many of its protein and nucleic acid partners is regulated by extracellular signals. Acting as a docking platform, K protein could link signal-transduction pathways to DNA- and RNA-directed processes such as transcription, mRNA processing, transport, and translation. Treatment of hepatocyte culture with insulin increased K protein tyrosine phosphorylation. Insulin altered K protein interaction with RNA and DNA in vitro. Administration of insulin into mice had similar effects on K protein in liver. Coimmunoprecipitations of RNA with K protein revealed preferential in vivo K protein binding of a subset of transcripts, including the insulin-inducible c-fos mRNA. These results suggest a class of insulin pathways that signal nucleic acid-directed processes that involve K protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The goal of this study was to determine the role of the Janus tyrosine kinase (JAK)–signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathway in the late phase of ischemic preconditioning (PC). A total of 230 mice were used. At 5 min after ischemic PC (induced with six cycles of 4-min coronary occlusion/4-min reperfusion), immunoprecipitation with anti-phosphotyrosine (anti-pTyr) antibodies followed by immunoblotting with anti-JAK antibodies revealed increased tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK1 (+257 ± 53%) and JAK2 (+238 ± 35%), indicating rapid activation of these two kinases. Similar results were obtained by immunoblotting with anti-pTyr-JAK1 and anti-pTyr-JAK2 antibodies. Western analysis with anti-pTyr-STAT antibodies demonstrated a marked increase in nuclear pTyr-STAT1 (+301 ± 61%) and pTyr-STAT3 (+253 ± 60%) 30 min after ischemic PC, which was associated with redistribution of STAT1 and STAT3 from the cytosolic to the nuclear fraction and with an increase in STAT1 and STAT3 γ-IFN activation site DNA-binding activity (+606 ± 64%), indicating activation of STAT1 and STAT3. No nuclear translocation or tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT2, STAT4, STAT5A, STAT5B, or STAT6 was observed. Pretreatment with the JAK inhibitor AG-490 20 min before the six occlusion/reperfusion cycles blocked the enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK1 and JAK2 and the increased tyrosine phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and enhanced DNA-binding activity of STAT1 and STAT3. The same dose of AG-490 abrogated the protection against myocardial infarction and the concomitant up-regulation of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) protein and activity observed 24 h after ischemic PC. Taken together, these results demonstrate that ischemic PC induces isoform-selective activation of JAK1, JAK2, STAT1, and STAT3, and that ablation of this response impedes the up-regulation of iNOS and the concurrent acquisition of ischemic tolerance. This study demonstrates that the JAK-STAT pathway plays an essential role in the development of late PC. The results reveal a signaling mechanism that underlies the transcriptional up-regulation of the cardiac iNOS gene and the adaptation of the heart to ischemic stress.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An unusual micelle was discovered in mixtures of the nonionic detergent octaethyleneglycol-mono-n-dodecylether with disaturated phospholipids such as 1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine or 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine in water. These mixtures undergo a structural transition upon cooling through the chain-melting temperatures of the respective phospholipids, resulting in the formation of mixed micelles. Structural features of the micellar particles were studied here by synchrotron x-ray scattering. The translucent micellar solutions showed characteristic wide-angle reflections that were attributed to ordered hydrocarbon chains, whereas the absence of small-angle x-ray reflections indicated that there is no long-range order in these mixtures. The presence of ordered phospholipid acyl chains was confirmed by differential scanning calorimetry and isothermal titration calorimetry. The endothermic differential scanning calorimetry signals observed in the up-scan mode were tentatively ascribed to chain melting and mixing of the components. Isothermal titration of the mixed-micellar solutions into an excess of the detergent octaethyleneglycol-mono-n-dodecylether resulted in sudden uptake of the latent heat by the gel-state phospholipids. The heat uptake per mol of phospholipid decreased with increasing detergent/phospholipid molar ratio. A simple geometric model is presented assuming that the dominating particle species in the mixtures is a discoidal phospholipid aggregate with ordered acyl chains, surrounded by a toroidal detergent hoop. The model implies that the fraction of ordered phospholipid chains decreases with increasing detergent/phospholipid molar ratio, in agreement with the calorimetric results and high-resolution NMR spectroscopy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Cα—H⋅⋅⋅O hydrogen bond has been given little attention as a determinant of transmembrane helix association. Stimulated by recent calculations suggesting that such bonds can be much stronger than has been supposed, we have analyzed 11 known membrane protein structures and found that apparent carbon α hydrogen bonds cluster frequently at glycine-, serine-, and threonine-rich packing interfaces between transmembrane helices. Parallel right-handed helix–helix interactions appear to favor Cα—H⋅⋅⋅O bond formation. In particular, Cα—H⋅⋅⋅O interactions are frequent between helices having the structural motif of the glycophorin A dimer and the GxxxG pair. We suggest that Cα—H⋅⋅⋅O hydrogen bonds are important determinants of stability and, depending on packing, specificity in membrane protein folding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The photoreceptor photoactive yellow protein (PYP) was used as a model system to study receptor activation and protein folding. Refolding was studied by stopped-flow absorbance spectroscopy for PYP with either a trans or a cis chromophore. Chromophore trans to cis isomerization, the mechanism of light detection by PYP, greatly affects the protein folding process. When the cis chromophore is present, refolding from the unfolded state proceeds through the putative signaling state of PYP as an on-pathway intermediate. In addition, moderate denaturant concentrations result in the specific unfolding of the signaling state of PYP. Thus, the signaling state is common to the pathways of folding and signaling. This result provides an avenue for the study of protein folding. We demonstrate how this approach can be used to establish whether a folding intermediate is on-pathway or off-pathway. The results also reveal transient partial unfolding as a molecular mechanism for signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fluorescence anisotropy is used to follow the binding of RecA to short single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) sequences (39 bases) at low DNA and RecA concentration where the initial phase of polymerization occurs. We observe that RecA condensation is extremely sensitive to minute changes in DNA sequences. RecA binds strongly to sequences that are rich in pyrimidines and that lack significant secondary structure and base stacking. We find a correlation between the DNA folding free energy and the onset concentration for RecA binding. These results suggest that the folding of ssDNA and base stacking represent a barrier for RecA binding. The link between secondary structure and binding affinity is further analyzed with two examples: discrimination between two naturally occurring polymorphisms differing by one base and RecA binding on a molecular beacon. A self-assembly model is introduced to explain these observations. We propose that RecA may be used to sense ssDNA sequence and structure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Kinetic and structural studies of wild-type proteins such as prions and amyloidogenic proteins provide suggestive evidence that proteins may adopt multiple long-lived states in addition to the native state. All of these states differ structurally because they lie far apart in configuration space, but their stability is not necessarily caused by cooperative (nucleation) effects. In this study, a minimalist model protein is designed to exhibit multiple long-lived states to explore the dynamics of the corresponding wild-type proteins. The minimalist protein is modeled as a 27-monomer sequence confined to a cubic lattice with three different monomer types. An order parameter—the winding index—is introduced to characterize the extent of folding. The winding index has several advantages over other commonly used order parameters like the number of native contacts. It can distinguish between enantiomers, its calculation requires less computational time than the number of native contacts, and reduced-dimensional landscapes can be developed when the native state structure is not known a priori. The results for the designed model protein prove by existence that the rugged energy landscape picture of protein folding can be generalized to include protein “misfolding” into long-lived states.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cochlea uses active amplification to capture faint sounds. It has been proposed that the amplifier comprises a set of self-tuned critical oscillators: each hair cell contains a force-generating dynamical system that is maintained at the threshold of an oscillatory instability, or Hopf bifurcation. While the active response to a pure tone provides frequency selectivity, exquisite sensitivity, and wide dynamic range, its intrinsic nonlinearity causes tones of different frequency to interfere with one another in the cochlea. Here we determine the response to two tones, which provides a framework for understanding how the ear processes the more complex sounds of speech and music. Our calculations of two-tone suppression and the spectrum of distortion products generated by a critical oscillator accord with experimental observations of basilar membrane motion and the nervous response. We discuss how the response of a set of self-tuned oscillators, covering a range of characteristic frequencies, represents the structure of a complex sound. The frequency components of the stimulus can be inferred from the timing of neural spikes elicited by the vibrating hair cells. Passive prefiltering by the basilar membrane improves pitch discrimination by reducing interference between tones. Our analysis provides a general framework for examining the relation between the physical nature of the peripheral detection apparatus and psychophysical phenomena such as the sensation of dissonance and auditory illusions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The flagella of the Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa serve not only for motility but also to bind bacteria to the host cell glycolipid asialoGM1 (ASGM1) through the protein flagellin. This interaction triggers defensive responses in host cells. How this response occurs is unclear because ASGM1 lacks transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains and there is little information about the downstream effectors that connect ASGM1 ligation to the initiation of host defense responses. Here, we show that ASGM1 ligation promotes ATP release from the host cell, followed by autocrine activation of a nucleotide receptor. This response links ASGM1 to cytoplasmic signaling molecules and results in activation of phospholipase C, Ca2+ mobilization, phosphorylation of a mitogen-activated protein kinase (Erk 1/2), and activation of mucin transcription. These results indicate that bacterial interaction with host cells can trigger autocrine nucleotide signaling and suggest that agents affecting nucleotide receptors may modulate host responses to bacteria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Premature chromatin condensation (PCC) is a hallmark of mammalian cells that begin mitosis before completing DNA replication. This lethal event is prevented by a highly conserved checkpoint involving an unknown, caffeine-sensitive mediator. Here, we have examined the possible involvement of the caffeine-sensitive ATM and ATR protein kinases in this checkpoint. We show that caffeine's ability to inhibit ATR (but not ATM) causes PCC, that ATR (but not ATM) prevents PCC, and that ATR prevents PCC via Chk-1 regulation. Moreover, mimicking cancer cell phenotypes by disrupting normal G1 checkpoints sensitizes cells to PCC by ATR inhibition plus low-dose DNA damage. Notably, loss of p53 function potently sensitizes cells to PCC caused by ATR inhibition by a small molecule. We present a molecular model for how ATR prevents PCC and suggest that ATR represents an attractive therapeutic target for selectively killing cancer cells by premature chromatin condensation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
On phosphorylation of Cbl, the c-Cbl-associated protein (CAP)/Cbl complex dissociates from the insulin receptor and translocates to a lipid raft membrane fraction to form a ternary complex with flotillin. Deletion analyses of the CAP gene identified a 115-aa region responsible for flotillin binding. This region is homologous to the peptide sorbin and is referred to as the sorbin homology (SoHo) domain. This domain is present in two other proteins, vinexin and ArgBP2. Vinexin also interacted with flotillin, and deletion of its SoHo domain similarly blocked flotillin binding. The overexpression of a CAP mutant in which the SoHo domain had been deleted (CAPΔSoHo) prevented the translocation of Cbl to lipid rafts and subsequently blocked the recruitment of CrkII and C3G. Moreover, overexpression of CAPΔSoHo prevented the stimulation of glucose transport and GLUT4 translocation by insulin. These results suggest a mechanism for localization of signaling proteins to the lipid raft that mediates the compartmentalization of crucial signal transduction pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pma1 is a plasma membrane H+-ATPase whose activity at the cell surface is essential for cell viability. In this paper we describe a temperature-sensitive pma1 allele, pma1-10 (with two point mutations in the first cytoplasmic loop of Pma1), in which the newly synthesized mutant protein fails to remain stable at the cell surface at 37°C. Instead, Pma1-10 appears to undergo internalization for vacuolar degradation in a manner dependent on End4, Vps27, Doa4, and Pep4. By contrast with wild-type Pma1, mutant Pma1-10 is hypophosphorylated and fails to associate with a Triton-insoluble fraction at 37°C, suggesting failure to enter lipid rafts. Kinetic analysis reveals that, at the permissive temperature, newly synthesized Pma1-10 acquires Triton-insolubility before becoming stabilized. We suggest that phosphorylation and lipid raft association may play important roles in maintaining protein stability at the plasma membrane.
DOC DONE!Abstract
α-Synuclein (αS) is a 140-residue neuronal protein that forms insoluble cytoplasmic aggregates in Parkinson's disease (PD) and several other neurodegenerative disorders. Two missense mutations (A53T and A30P) are linked to rare forms of familial PD. The normal function of αS is unknown, and cultured cell systems that model its modification from soluble monomers to aggregated forms have not been reported. Through a systematic centrifugal fractionation of mesencephalic neuronal cell lines and transgenic mouse brains expressing wild-type or A53T human αS, we observed unusual, previously unrecognized species of αS that migrate well above the 17-kDa monomeric form in denaturing gels. Incubation at 65°C of high-speed cytosols from cells or brains revealed a modified αS species migrating at ≈36 kDa and an extensive higher molecular mass αS-reactive smear. Extraction of the cytosols with chloroform/methanol or with a resin (Lipidex 1000) that binds fatty acids resulted in a similar pattern of higher molecular mass αS forms. On the basis of this effect of delipidation, we reexamined the primary structure of αS and detected a motif at the N and C termini that is homologous to a fatty acid-binding protein signature. In accord, we found that purified human αS binds oleic acid, with an apparent Kd of 12.5 μM. We also observed an enhanced association of A53T αS with microsomal membranes in both mesencephalic cells and transgenic mouse brains. We conclude that αS has biochemical properties and a structural motif that suggest it is a novel member of the fatty acid-binding protein family and may thus transport fatty acids between the aqueous and membrane phospholipid compartments of the neuronal cytoplasm.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Carbohydrates mediate their conversion to triglycerides in the liver by promoting both rapid posttranslational activation of rate-limiting glycolytic and lipogenic enzymes and transcriptional induction of the genes encoding many of these same enzymes. The mechanism by which elevated carbohydrate levels affect transcription of these genes remains unknown. Here we report the purification and identification of a transcription factor that recognizes the carbohydrate response element (ChRE) within the promoter of the L-type pyruvate kinase (LPK) gene. The DNA-binding activity of this ChRE-binding protein (ChREBP) in rat livers is specifically induced by a high carbohydrate diet. ChREBP's DNA-binding specificity in vitro precisely correlates with promoter activity in vivo. Furthermore, forced ChREBP overexpression in primary hepatocytes activates transcription from the L-type Pyruvate kinase promoter in response to high glucose levels. The DNA-binding activity of ChREBP can be modulated in vitro by means of changes in its phosphorylation state, suggesting a possible mode of glucose-responsive regulation. ChREBP is likely critical for the optimal long-term storage of excess carbohydrates as fats, and may contribute to the imbalance between nutrient utilization and storage characteristic of obesity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The single class I myosin (MYOA) of Aspergillus nidulans is essential for hyphal growth. It is generally assumed that the functions of all myosins depend on their actin-activated MgATPase activity. Here we show that MYOA mutants with no more than 1% of the actin-activated MgATPase activity of wild-type MYOA in vitro and no detectable in vitro motility activity can support fungal cell growth, albeit with a delay in germination time and a reduction in hyphal elongation. From these and other data, we conclude that the essential role(s) of myosin I in A. nidulans is probably structural, requiring little, if any, actin-activated MgATPase or motor activity, which have long been considered the defining characteristics of the myosin family.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The pericentriolar stacks of Golgi cisternae undergo extensive reorganization during mitosis in mammalian cells. GM130 and GRASP65 (Golgi reassembly stacking protein of 65 kDa) are Golgi-associated proteins that are targets of mitotic kinases, and they have also been implicated in the reorganization of the Golgi structure during cell division. Previous studies have reported that mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase-1 (MEK1) and Cdc2 protein kinases are involved in these dynamic changes in the Golgi structure. More recently, the mitotic polo-like kinase (Plk) has been shown to interact with and phosphorylate GRASP65. Here, we provide evidence that Plk is involved in the mitosis-specific fragmentation of the Golgi apparatus. The addition of kinase-defective Plk or immunodepletion of Plk disrupts the fragmentation process. Furthermore, Golgi fragmentation is inhibited by the addition of either full-length or truncated GRASP65. These findings suggest that phosphorylation of GRASP65 by Plk may be a critical event in the reorganization of the Golgi structure during mitosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mitochondrially encoded large and small ribosomal RNAs (mtlrRNA and mtsrRNA) are transported out of mitochondria to polar granules, the distinctive organelles of germ plasm in Drosophila. Reduction of the extramitochondrial mtlrRNA amount leads to the failure of embryos to form the germ-line progenitors, or pole cells, suggesting that mtlrRNA, along with mtsrRNA, functions on the polar granules to specify the germ line. In this study, we provide several lines of evidence showing that there are mitochondria-type ribosomes on the polar granules during a short period before pole cell formation. Our ultrastructural analysis reveals that these ribosomes include both mitochondrial rRNAs and at least two mitochondrial ribosomal proteins (S12 and L7/L12). Furthermore, these ribosomes are integrated into well developed polysomes on the surface of polar granules. We propose that translation dependent on mitochondria-type ribosomes is an important mechanism underlying germ-line formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To study the role of transforming growth factor type β1 (TGFβ1) in epidermal growth control and disease, we have generated a conditional expression system by using the bovine keratin 5 promoter to drive expression of the tetracycline-regulated transactivators tTA and rTA, and a constitutively active mutant of TGFβ1 linked to the tetO target sequence for the transactivator. This model allows for induction or suppression of exogenous TGFβ1 with oral doxycycline. Maximal expression of TGFβ1 during gestation caused embryonic lethality, whereas partial suppression allowed full-term development with neonatal lethality characterized by runting, epidermal hypoproliferation, and blocked hair follicle growth. With complete suppression, phenotypically normal double transgenic (DT) mice were born. Acute induction of TGFβ1 in the epidermis of adult mice inhibited basal and follicular keratinocyte proliferation and reentry of telogen hair follicles into anagen. However, chronic expression of TGFβ1 in adult DTs caused severe alopecia characterized by epidermal and follicular hyperproliferation, apoptosis, as well as dermal fibrosis and inflammation. Readministration of doxycycline to tTA DT mice caused hair regrowth within 14 days. The mRNA and protein for Smad7, an inhibitor of TGFβ signaling, were up-regulated in the epidermis and hair follicles of alopecic skin and rapidly induced in rTA mice in parallel with the TGFβ1 transgene, suggesting that the hyperproliferative phenotype may result in part from development of a sustained negative feedback loop. Thus, this conditional expression system provides an important model for understanding the role of TGFβ1 during development, in normal skin biology, and in disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Developmental hemoglobin switching involves sequential globin gene activations and repressions that are incompletely understood. Earlier observations, described herein, led us to hypothesize that nuclear ferritin is a repressor of the adult β-globin gene in embryonic erythroid cells. Our data show that a ferritin-family protein in K562 cell nuclear extracts binds specifically to a highly conserved CAGTGC motif in the β-globin promoter at −153 to −148 bp from the cap site, and mutation of the CAGTGC motif reduces binding 20-fold in competition gel-shift assays. Purified human ferritin that is enriched in ferritin-H chains also binds the CAGTGC promoter segment. Expression clones of ferritin-H markedly repress β-globin promoter-driven reporter gene expression in cotransfected CV-1 cells in which the β-promoter has been stimulated with the transcription activator erythroid Krüppel-like factor (EKLF). We have constructed chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter plasmids containing either a wild-type or mutant β-globin promoter for the −150 CAGTGC motif and have compared the constructs for susceptibility to repression by ferritin-H in cotransfection assays. We find that stimulation by cotransfected EKLF is retained with the mutant promoter, whereas repression by ferritin-H is lost. Thus, mutation of the −150 CAGTGC motif not only markedly reduces in vitro binding of nuclear ferritin but also abrogates the ability of expressed ferritin-H to repress this promoter in our cell transfection assay, providing a strong link between DNA binding and function, and strong support for our proposal that nuclear ferritin-H is a repressor of the human β-globin gene. Such a repressor could be helpful in treating sickle cell and other genetic diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alternative mating strategies are common in nature and are generally thought to increase the intensity of sexual selection. However, cuckoldry can theoretically decrease the opportunity for sexual selection, particularly in highly polygamous species. We address here the influence of sneaking (fertilization thievery) on the opportunity for sexual selection in the sand goby Pomatoschistus minutus, a marine fish species in which males build and defend nests. Our microsatellite-based analysis of the mating system in a natural sand goby population shows high rates of sneaking and multiple mating by males. Sneaker males had fertilized eggs in ≈50% of the assayed nests, and multiple sneakers sometimes fertilized eggs from a single female. Successful males had received eggs from 2 to 6 females per nest (mean = 3.4). We developed a simple mathematical model showing that sneaking in this polygynous sand goby population almost certainly decreases the opportunity for sexual selection, an outcome that contrasts with the usual effects of cuckoldry in socially monogamous animals. These results highlight a more complex and interesting relationship between cuckoldry rates and the intensity of sexual selection than previously assumed in much of the literature on animal mating systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Directional selection is a major force driving adaptation and evolutionary change. However, the distribution, strength, and tempo of phenotypic selection acting on quantitative traits in natural populations remain unclear across different study systems. We reviewed the literature (1984–1997) that reported the strength of directional selection as indexed by standardized linear selection gradients (β). We asked how strong are viability and sexual selection, and whether strength of selection is correlated with the time scale over which it was measured. Estimates of the magnitude of directional selection (|β|) were exponentially distributed, with few estimates greater than 0.50 and most estimates less than 0.15. Sexual selection (measured by mating success) appeared stronger than viability selection (measured by survival). Viability selection that was measured over short periods (days) was typically stronger than selection measured over longer periods (months and years), but the strength of sexual selection did not vary with duration of selection episodes; as a result, sexual selection was stronger than viability selection over longer time scales (months and years), but not over short time scales (days).
DOC DONE!Abstract
We measured sequence diversity in 21 loci distributed along chromosome 1 of maize (Zea mays ssp. mays L.). For each locus, we sequenced a common sample of 25 individuals representing 16 exotic landraces and nine U.S. inbred lines. The data indicated that maize has an average of one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) every 104 bp between two randomly sampled sequences, a level of diversity higher than that of either humans or Drosophila melanogaster. A comparison of genetic diversity between the landrace and inbred samples showed that inbreds retained 77% of the level of diversity of landraces, on average. In addition, Tajima's D values suggest that the frequency distribution of polymorphisms in inbreds was skewed toward fewer rare variants. Tests for selection were applied to all loci, and deviations from neutrality were detected in three loci. Sequence diversity was heterogeneous among loci, but there was no pattern of diversity along the genetic map of chromosome 1. Nonetheless, diversity was correlated (r = 0.65) with sequence-based estimates of the recombination rate. Recombination in our sample was sufficient to break down linkage disequilibrium among SNPs. Intragenic linkage disequilibrium declines within 100–200 bp on average, suggesting that genome-wide surveys for association analyses require SNPs every 100–200 bp.
DOC DONE!Abstract
About 20 years ago Drosophila subobscura, a native Palearctic species, colonized both North and South America. In Palearctic populations lethal genes are not associated in general with particular chromosomal arrangements. In colonizing populations they are not randomly distributed and usually are associated to a different degree with chromosomal arrangements caused by the founder event. The persistence of two lethal genes in the colonizing populations, one completely associated with the O5 inversion and the other partially associated with the O3+4+7 arrangement, has been analyzed. In all populations studied (five North American and six South American) the observed frequency of the lethal gene completely associated with the O5 inversion is higher than expected, the difference being statistically significant in all South American and one North American populations. The observed frequency of the lethal gene partially associated with the O3+4+7 arrangement is also significantly higher than expected. Taking into account that the O5 inversion exhibits significant latitudinal clines both in North and South America, an overdominant model favoring the heterokaryotypes seems to be in operation. From this model, a polynomial expression has been developed that allows us to estimate the relative fitness and the coefficient of selection against all karyotypes not carrying the O5 inversion. The relative fitness of the O5 heterokaryotypes is higher in South American than in North American populations. Furthermore, the observed frequencies of the lethal genes studied are in general very close to those of the equilibrium. This case is an outstanding demonstration in nature of an heterotic effect of chromosomal segments associated with lethal genes on a large geographic scale.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Females are expected to have different mating preferences because of the variation in costs and benefits of mate choice both between females and within individual females over a lifetime. Workers have begun to look for, and find, the expected variation among females in expressed mating preferences. However, variation within females caused by changes in intrinsic influences has not been examined in detail. Here we show that reproductive aging caused by delayed mating resulted in reduced choosiness by female Nauphoeta cinerea, a cockroach that has reproductive cycles and gives live birth. Male willingness to mate was unaffected by variation in female age. Females who were beyond the optimal mating age, 6 days postadult molt, required considerably less courtship than their younger counterparts. Females who were older when they mated had fewer offspring per clutch and fewer clutches than females who mated young. Thus, reduced choosiness was correlated with a permanent reduction in fertility. There was no difference in overall senescence among females, and thus the reduction in clutch size did not result in the expected increased lifespan. We suggest that reproductive aging in N. cinerea, similar to aging in general, occurs because the maintenance of oocytes is costly, and selection is relaxed after the optimal mating period. Our results further suggest that selection for continued choosiness is also relaxed and supports direct selection on female choosiness and a cost to choosiness.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fights between pairs of animals frequently take place within a wider social context. The displays exchanged during conflict, and the outcome of an encounter, are often detectable by individuals who are not immediately involved. In at least some species, such bystanders are known to eavesdrop on contests between others, and to modify their behavior toward the contestants in response to the observed interaction. Here, I extend Maynard Smith's well known model of animal aggression, the Hawk–Dove game, to incorporate the possibility of eavesdroppers. I show that some eavesdropping is favored whenever the cost of losing an escalated fight exceeds the value of the contested resource, and that its equilibrium frequency is greatest when costs are relatively high. Eavesdropping reduces the risk of escalated conflict relative to that expected by chance, given the level of aggression in the population. However, it also promotes increased aggression, because it enhances the value of victory. The net result is that escalated conflicts are predicted to occur more frequently when eavesdropping is possible.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The evolution of aposematism, a phenomenon where prey species conspicuously advertise their unprofitability to predators, is puzzling. How did conspicuousness evolve, if it simultaneously increased the likelihood of an inexperienced predator to detect the prey and presumably kill it? Antiapostatic selection, where rare prey is predated relatively more often, is considered as another major difficulty for aposematism to evolve. However, the risk of being conspicuous in low frequencies has not been experimentally tested. We designed an experiment to test how frequency (4%, 12%, 32%) of conspicuous aposematic prey and its dispersion type (solitary vs. aggregated) affect an initial predation risk of the prey and in avoidance learning of predators. Wild great tits (Parus major) were predators on artificial prey in a “novel world.” The relative mortality of aposematic prey was antiapostatic, thus the frequency-dependent predation was most severe at low frequencies. In all frequencies, aggregated aposematic prey survived better than solitary prey. Surprisingly, learning was not determined by a fixed number of unpalatable prey eaten, but at low frequencies fewer aposematic individuals eaten generated predators' avoidance learning. However, per-capita risk for the prey remained highest at low frequencies. Our results underscore the problems of initial evolution of rare conspicuous morphs. Aggregated prey suffered less from predation, indicating selective advantage of aggregation over solitary living for a conspicuous individual.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic encoding provides a generic construction scheme for biomolecular functions. This paper addresses the key problem of coevolution and exploitation of the multiple components necessary to implement a replicable genetic encoding scheme. Extending earlier results on multicomponent replication, the necessity of spatial structure for the evolutionary stabilization of the genetic coding system is established. An individual-based stochastic model of interacting molecules in three-dimensional space is presented that allows the evolution of genetic coding to be analyzed explicitly. A massively parallel configurable computer (NGEN) is used to implement the model, on the time scale of millions of generations, directly in electronic hardware. The spatial correlations between components of the genetic coding system are analyzed and found to be essential for evolutionary stability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We introduce a general technique for making statistical inference from clustering tools applied to gene expression microarray data. The approach utilizes an analysis of variance model to achieve normalization and estimate differential expression of genes across multiple conditions. Statistical inference is based on the application of a randomization technique, bootstrapping. Bootstrapping has previously been used to obtain confidence intervals for estimates of differential expression for individual genes. Here we apply bootstrapping to assess the stability of results from a cluster analysis. We illustrate the technique with a publicly available data set and draw conclusions about the reliability of clustering results in light of variation in the data. The bootstrapping procedure relies on experimental replication. We discuss the implications of replication and good design in microarray experiments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The presence of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells makes the mouse a powerful model organism for reverse genetics, gene function study through mutagenesis of specific genes. In contrast, forward genetics, identification of mutated genes responsible for specific phenotypes, has an advantage to uncover novel pathways and unknown genes because no a priori assumptions are made about the mutated genes. However, it has been hampered in mice because of the lack of a system in which a large-scale mutagenesis and subsequent isolation of mutated genes can be performed efficiently. Here, we demonstrate the efficient chromosomal transposition of a Tc1/mariner-like transposon, Sleeping Beauty, in mice. This system allows germ-line mutagenesis in vivo and will facilitate certain aspects of phenotype-driven genetic screening in mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Altered expression of genes can have phenotypic consequences in cancer development and treatment, developmental abnormalities, and differentiation processes. Here we describe a rapid approach, termed comparative expressed sequence hybridization (CESH), which gives a genome-wide view of relative expression patterns within tissues according to chromosomal location. No prior knowledge of genes or cloning is required, and minimal amounts of tissue can be used. Expression profiles are achieved in a manner similar to the identification of chromosomal imbalances by comparative genomic hybridization analysis. The approach is demonstrated to indicate a chromosomal region that harbors overexpressed genes that may be associated with a drug-resistant phenotype. In addition, known and new regions of differential gene expression in both normal tissues and tumor samples from the soft tissue sarcoma group of rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) are indicated. These regions included 2p24; overexpression of MYCN at 2p24 was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription–PCR for all of the alveolar RMS cases and did not necessarily correspond to genomic amplification. Evidence including region specific microarray analysis indicated that overexpression of several genes from a region may be required for detection by CESH. This evidence is consistent with clusters of functionally related genes and mechanisms that affect the expression of a number of genes at a particular genomic location. The distinctive CESH profiles demonstrated in different subtypes of RMS show potential for tumor classification.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Marek's disease (MD) is a lymphoproliferative disease of chickens induced by a herpesvirus, the MD virus (MDV). Because MD is a significant economic problem to the poultry industry, there is great interest in enhancing genetic resistance, which is controlled by multiple genes. The influence of the MHC has been clearly demonstrated, and several relevant quantitative trait loci have been mapped; however, no single gene influencing MD resistance has been identified. Transcription of SORF2 is perturbed in the MDV recombinant clone RM1 due to a solo insertion of the reticuloendotheliosis virus long terminal repeat, which may explain the loss of oncogenicity for this strain. Hypothesizing that SORF2-interacting host proteins are involved in MD resistance, we screened a chicken splenic cDNA library by the yeast two-hybrid assay using SORF2 as bait. The chicken growth hormone (GH) structural peptide was identified, and the specific interaction was verified by coimmunoprecipitation. Immunohistochemical staining and indirect immunofluorescence assay indicated that GH and SORF2 can be coexpressed in MDV-infected cells both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, polymorphism in the GH gene (GH1) is associated with the number of tissues with tumors in commercial White Leghorn chickens with the MHC B*2/B*15 genotype. We conclude that GH1 may well be a MD resistance gene.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The use of Cre/loxP recombination in mammalian cells has expanded rapidly. We describe here that Cre expression in cultured mammalian cells may result in a markedly reduced proliferation and that this effect is dependent on the endonuclease activity of Cre. Chromosome analysis after Cre expression revealed numerous chromosomal aberrations and an increased number of sister chromatid exchanges. Titration experiments in mouse embryo fibroblasts with a ligand-regulatable Cre-ERT show that toxicity is dependent on the level of Cre activity. Prolonged, low levels of Cre activity permit recombination without concomitant toxicity. This urges for a careful titration of Cre activity in conditional gene modification in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The noncoding RNA Xist has been shown to be essential for X-chromosome inactivation and to coat the inactive X-chromosome (Xi). Thus, an important question in understanding the formation of Xi is whether the binding reaction of Xist is necessary for X-chromosome inactivation. In this article, we demonstrate the failure of X-chromosome silencing if the association of Xist with the X-chromosome is inhibited. The chromatin-binding region was functionally mapped and evaluated by using an approach for studying noncoding RNA function in living cells that we call peptide nucleic acid (PNA) interference mapping. In the reported experiments, a single 19-bp antisense cell-permeating PNA targeted against a particular region of Xist RNA caused the disruption of the Xi. The association of the Xi with macro-histone H2A is also disturbed by PNA interference mapping.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The physiological and behavioral activities of many animals are restricted to specific times of the day. The daily fluctuation in the mating activity of some insects is controlled by an endogenous clock, but the genetic mechanism that controls it remains unknown. Here we demonstrate that wild-type Drosophila melanogaster display a robust circadian rhythm in the mating activity, and that these rhythms are abolished in period- or timeless-null mutant flies (per01 and tim01). Circadian rhythms were lost when rhythm mutant females were paired with wild-type males, demonstrating that female mating activity is governed by clock genes. Furthermore, we detected an antiphasic relationship in the circadian rhythms of mating activity between D. melanogaster and its sibling species Drosophila simulans. Female- and species-specific circadian rhythms in the mating activity of Drosophila seem to cause reproductive isolation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Normal levels of CD4+ regulatory T cells are critical for the maintenance of immunological homeostasis and the prevention of autoimmune diseases. However, we now show that the expansion of CD4+ regulatory T cells in response to a chronic viral infection can lead to immunosuppression. Mice persistently infected with Friend retrovirus develop approximately twice the normal percentage of splenic CD4+ regulatory T cells and lose their ability to reject certain tumor transplants. The role of CD4+ regulatory T cells was demonstrated by the transmission of immunosuppression to uninfected mice by adoptive transfers of CD4+ T cells. CD4+ T cells from chronically infected mice were also immunosuppressive in vitro, inhibiting the generation of cytolytic T lymphocytes in mixed lymphocyte cultures. Inhibition occurred at the level of blast-cell formation through a mechanism or mechanisms involving transforming growth factor-β and the cell surface molecule CTLA-4 (CD152). These results suggest a possible explanation for HIV- and human T cell leukemia virus-I-induced immunosuppression in the absence of T cell depletion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Comparison of crystallized MHC class II⋅peptide complexes has revealed that, in addition to pocket interactions involving the peptide side chains, peptide binding to MHC class II molecules is characterized by a series of hydrogen bonds between genetically conserved amino acid residues in the class II molecule and the main chain of the peptide. Many class II⋅peptide structures have two sets of symmetrical hydrogen bonds at the opposite ends of the class II antigen-binding groove (β-His-81, β-Asn-82 vs. α-His-68, α-Asn-69). In this study, we alter these peripheral hydrogen bonds and measure the apparent contribution of each to the kinetic stability of peptide⋅class II complexes. Single conservative amino substitutions were made in the I-Ad protein to eliminate participation as a hydrogen bonding residue, and the kinetic stability of a diverse set of peptides bound to the substituted I-Ad proteins was measured. Although each hydrogen bond does contribute to peptide binding, our results point to the striking conclusion that those hydrogen bonds localized to the amino terminus of the peptide contribute profoundly and disproportionately to the stability of peptide interactions with I-Ad. We suggest that the peripheral hydrogen bonds at the amino terminus of the bound peptide that are conserved in all class II⋅peptide crystal structures solved thus far form a cooperative network that critically regulates peptide dissociation from the class II molecule.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Toll-like receptor (TLR) family consists of phylogenetically conserved transmembrane proteins, which function as mediators of innate immunity for recognition of pathogen-derived ligands and subsequent cell activation via the Toll/IL-1R signal pathway. Here, we show that human TLR9 (hTLR9) expression in human immune cells correlates with responsiveness to bacterial deoxycytidylate-phosphate-deoxyguanylate (CpG)-DNA. Notably “gain of function” to immunostimulatory CpG-DNA is achieved by expressing TLR9 in human nonresponder cells. Transfection of either human or murine TLR9 conferred responsiveness in a CD14- and MD2-independent manner, yet required species-specific CpG-DNA motifs for initiation of the Toll/IL-1R signal pathway via MyD88. The optimal CpG motif for hTLR9 was GTCGTT, whereas the optimal murine sequence was GACGTT. Overall, these data suggest that hTLR9 conveys CpG-DNA responsiveness to human cells by directly engaging immunostimulating CpG-DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Y-Ae mAb and the 1H3.1 αβ T cell antigen receptor (TCR) are both specific for the I-Eα52–68 peptide bound to the I-Ab major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecule. Antigen-presenting cells (APCs) from I-Ab+ mice with a natural or transgenic (Tg) I-Eα chain activate mature 1H3.1 T cells and cause the deletion of 1H3.1 TCR Tg thymocytes. However, 1H3.1 T cells were neither activated nor inactivated by confrontation with APCs from I-Ab-Ep mice in which I-Ab molecules are occupied only by the covalently associated Eα52–68 peptide. Instead, immature 1H3.1 TCR Tg thymocytes were efficiently positively selected into the CD4 lineage in the I-Ab-Ep thymus. This selection relied on specific recognition of the Eα52–68/I-Ab complex because it was blocked by Y-Ae. 1H3.1 TCR Tg T cells maturing in the I-Ab-Ep thymus efficiently populated the periphery, displayed a naive phenotype, and were specifically reactive to the Eα52–68 peptide or to I-Ab+I-Eα+ APCs, indicating that 1H3.1 T cells were not antagonized in I-Ab-Ep mice. The data identify major histocompatibility complex class II molecules with only a covalently attached self-peptide as a ligand for in vivo positive selection of T cells specific for the same peptide.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mice prefer to mate with individuals expressing different MHC genes from their own. Volatile components presenting MHC-dependent odor types are present in urine and can be detected by mice, as shown by extensive behavioral studies. Similar odor types are suspected to influence human behavior as well. Although a recent report indicates that MHC expression influences the ratio of volatile compounds such as phenylacetic acid, so far no other means than studying the behavior of mice or rats has been available to assess odor types. Here, we report the ability of a gas sensor array (referred to as “electronic nose”) to detect MHC-dependent odor types. The electronic nose consists of an array of chemophysical detectors, in our case quartz crystal microbalances and semiconducting metal-oxide sensors that change frequency or conductivity upon binding of very small numbers of individual molecules present in the gas phase of odorous fluids. The pattern of changes is characteristic for a particular smell. Our electronic nose distinguishes the urine odor types of MHC congenic mouse strains, MHC class I mutant mice, and HLA-A2 transgenic mice. In addition, MHC-dependent odor types can be detected in serum. The device also clearly differentiates between individual odor types of human sera from HLA homozygous individuals; however, HLA expression seems to have only a secondary influence. Thus, odor-type research can now be carried out with an objective and fast through-put system independent of behavioral studies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of the hedgehog pathway, through the loss of patched (PTC) or the activation of smoothened (SMO), occurs frequently in basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common human cancer. However, the molecular basis of this neoplastic effect is not understood. The downstream molecule Gli1 is known to mediate the biological effect of the pathway and is itself up-regulated in all BCCs. Gli1 can drive the production of BCCs in the mouse when overexpressed in the epidermis. Here we show that Gli1 can activate platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRα) in C3H10T½ cells. Functional up-regulation of PDGFRα by Gli1 is accompanied by activation of the ras-ERK pathway, a pathway associated with cell proliferation. The relevance of this mechanism in vivo is supported by a high level expression of PDGFRα in BCCs of mice and humans. In the murine BCC cell line ASZ001, in which both copies of the PTC gene are inactivated, DNA synthesis and cell proliferation can be slowed by re-expression of PTC, which down-regulates PDGFRα expression, or by downstream inhibition of PDGFRα with neutralizing antibodies. Therefore, we conclude that increased expression of PDGFRα may be an important mechanism by which mutations in the hedgehog pathway cause BCCs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Arginase, which exists as the isoforms arginase I and II, catalyzes
 the hydrolysis of arginine to ornithine and urea. Ornithine is the
 principal precursor for production of polyamines, which are required
 for cell proliferation. Rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMC) contain
 constitutive arginase I, and arginase inhibitors cause inhibition of
 cell proliferation. The objective of this study was to determine
 whether the elevated expression of arginase I in RASMC causes increased
 cell proliferation. RASMC were stably transfected with either rat
 arginase I cDNA or a β-galactosidase control expression plasmid.
 Western blots and arginase enzymatic assays revealed high-level
 expression of cytosolic arginase I in arginase I-transfected RASMC.
 Moreover, this observation was associated with the increased production
 of urea and polyamines and higher rates of RASMC proliferation. The two
 selective inhibitors of arginase,
 NG-hydroxy-l-arginine and
 S-(2-boronoethyl)-l-cysteine, inhibited
 arginase and decreased the production of urea and polyamines in
 arginase I-transfected RASMC, all of which were associated with the
 inhibition of cell proliferation. This study demonstrates that elevated
 arginase I expression increases RASMC proliferation by mechanisms
 involving increased production of polyamines. These observations
 suggest that arginase I plays a potentially important role in
 controlling RASMC proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Angiogenesis plays an important role in neovascularization in tumors. Glycodelin, a hormone-responsive protein, has been detected in tumors of reproductive organs and is found in high levels in the plasma of subjects with gynecological malignancies. Glycodelin is also found in the endothelial cells of the umbilical cord and in the blood vessels of tumors. In this study, we tested whether glycodelin-rich amniotic fluid and a synthetic peptide derived from the sequence of glycodelin peptide (Gp) might promote angiogenic response by examining the migration and tube formation in human umbilical cord vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Increased migration and tube formation of HUVECs were found in the presence of amniotic fluid and Gp, and this increase was blocked by antibody to Gp and by an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibody, suggesting that the angiogenic effects of glycodelin might be mediated by VEGF. The results also showed that Gp significantly increased the release of VEGF protein and mRNA expression in HUVECs, RL-95 (human endometrial carcinoma cells), OVCAR-3 (human ovarian adenocarcinoma cells), EM42 (human endometrial epithelial cells), THP-1 (human monocyte), and MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 (human breast adenocarcinoma cells) cell lines. VEGF receptor Fit-1 mRNA expression in HUVECs was also increased in the presence of Gp. These findings, together with the suggestion from the literature that glycodelin may have immunosuppressive properties, suggest that glycodelin might play an important role in neovascularization during embryogenesis and tumor development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report, to our knowledge, the first HIV type 1 (HIV-1) transgenic (Tg) rat. Expression of the transgene, consisting of an HIV-1 provirus with a functional deletion of gag and pol, is regulated by the viral long terminal repeat. Spliced and unspliced viral transcripts were expressed in lymph nodes, thymus, liver, kidney, and spleen, suggesting that Tat and Rev are functional. Viral proteins were identified in spleen tissue sections by immunohistochemistry and gp120 was present in splenic macrophages, T and B cells, and in serum. Clinical signs included wasting, mild to severe skin lesions, opaque cataracts, neurological signs, and respiratory difficulty. Histopathology included a selective loss of splenocytes within the periarterial lymphoid sheath, increased apoptosis of endothelial cells and splenocytes, follicular hyperplasia of the spleen, lymphocyte depletion of mesenteric lymph nodes, interstitial pneumonia, psoriatic skin lesions, and neurological, cardiac, and renal pathologies. Immunologically, delayed-type hypersensitivity response to keyhole limpet hemocyanin was diminished. By contrast, Ab titers and proliferative response to recall antigen (keyhole limpet hemocyanin) were normal. The HIV-1 Tg rat thus has many similarities to humans infected with HIV-1 in expression of viral genes, immune-response alterations, and pathologies resulting from infection. The HIV-1 Tg rat may provide a valuable model for some of the pathogenic manifestations of chronic HIV-1 diseases and could be useful in testing therapeutic regimens targeted to stages of viral replication subsequent to proviral integration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Differences in the immunological reactivity of umbilical cord (UC) and adult peripheral blood (APB) T cells are poorly understood. Here, we show that IL-7, a cytokine involved in lymphoid homeostasis, has distinct regulatory effects on APB and UC lymphocytes. Neither naive nor memory APB CD4+ cells proliferated in response to IL-7, whereas naive UC CD4+ lymphocytes underwent multiple divisions. Nevertheless, both naive and memory IL-7-treated APB T cells progressed into the G1b phase of the cell cycle, albeit at higher levels in the latter subset. The IL-7-treated memory CD4+ lymphocyte population was significantly more susceptible to infection with an HIV-1-derived vector than dividing CD4+ UC lymphocytes. However, activation through the T cell receptor rendered UC lymphocytes fully susceptible to HIV-1-based vector infection. These data unveil differences between UC and APB CD4+ T cells with regard to IL-7-mediated cell cycle progression and HIV-1-based vector infectivity. This evidence indicates that IL-7 differentially regulates lymphoid homeostasis in adults and neonates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The synthesis of antiviral β-chemokines has joined cytolysis as a potential mechanism for the control of HIV-1 infection by CD8+ T cells. Recent evidence suggests that these two effector functions can diverge in some individuals infected with HIV-1; however, little is known about the CD8+ T cell subsets in normal individuals that synthesize antiviral β-chemokines. In this report, we have used mutliparameter flow cytometry to characterize the T cell subsets that secrete the antiviral β-chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1β. These studies have shown: (i) CD8+ cells are the predominant T cell subset that synthesizes MIP-1β; (ii) MIP-1β and IFN-γ are synthesized congruently in most CD8+ T cells; however, significant numbers of these cells synthesize only one of these effector molecules; (iii) approximately 60% of the CD8+ T cells that synthesize MIP-1β lack perforin; (iv) MIP-1β is synthesized with approximately equal frequency by CD28+ and CD28− subpopulations of CD8+ T cells; (v) MIP-1β is synthesized by three distinct CD8+ T cell subsets defined by the expression of CD45R0 and CD62L; and (vi) MIP-1β is not synthesized in short-term cultures of naive CD8+ T cells. These results demonstrate substantial subset heterogeneity of MIP-1β synthesis among CD8+ T cells and suggest that these subsets should be evaluated as correlates of protective immunity against HIV-1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
With the potential spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy to people as a variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (CJD), it becomes critical to identify cells in the periphery that carry infection. Initial work with scrapie agents suggested that B cells were central vectors for neuroinvasion. Subsequent studies indicated that B cells played an indirect role by promoting the development of follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) that accumulate abnormal prion protein (PrP). The mechanism for the role of FDCs, however, has not been clear. To further dissect potential B cell functions that contribute to neuroinvasion, we inoculated a CJD agent into mutant mice that (i) lacked B cells, (ii) had B cells unable to secrete Ig, or (iii) could secrete only IgM. Remarkably, all these mice developed disease with practically indistinguishable incubation times. The demonstration that neither immune complexes nor B cells were required for neuroinvasion from the periphery mandates a reanalysis of the accepted view of the essential role of B cells and FDC in these infections. Moreover, immune complexes were not required for the accumulation of pathologic PrP on the surface of FDCs, suggesting that PrP can bind to FDCs autonomously or by means of another factor. Wild-type mice had incubation times ≈50 days less than all mutant mice at the same peripheral doses, indicating that an intact immune system may increase agent uptake and delivery, but this condition is not essential. Specifically, the evidence to date suggests that IgG may enhance pivotal agent interactions with migratory myeloid cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Exposure of susceptible neuroblastoma N2a cells to mouse scrapie prions leads to infection, as evidenced by the continued presence of the scrapie form of the prion protein (PrPSc) and infectivity after 300 or more cell doublings. We find that exposure to phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PIPLC) or to the monoclonal anti-prion protein (PrP) antibody 6H4 not only prevents infection of susceptible N2a cells but also cures chronically scrapie-infected cultures, as judged by the long-term abrogation of PrPSc accumulation after cessation of treatment. A nonpassaged, stationary infected culture rapidly loses PrPSc when exposed to the antibody or PIPLC, indicating that the PrPSc level is determined by steady state equilibrium between formation and degradation, and that depletion of the cellular form of PrP can interrupt the propagation of PrPSc. These findings encourage the belief that passive immunization may provide a therapeutic approach to prion disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A noninvasive method for molecular imaging of the activity of different signal transduction pathways and the expression of different genes in vivo would be of considerable value. It would aid in understanding the role specific genes and signal transduction pathways have in various diseases, and could elucidate temporal dynamics and regulation at different stages of disease and during various therapeutic interventions. We developed and assessed a method for monitoring the transcriptional activation of endogenous genes by positron-emission tomography (PET) imaging. The HSV1-tk/GFP (TKGFP) dual reporter gene was used to monitor transcriptional activation of p53-dependent genes. A retrovirus bearing the Cis-p53/TKGFP reporter system was constructed in which the TKGFP reporter gene was placed under control of an artificial cis-acting p53-specific enhancer. U87 glioma and SaOS-2 osteosarcoma cells were transduced with this retrovirus and used to establish xenografts in rats. We demonstrated that DNA damage-induced up-regulation of p53 transcriptional activity correlated with the expression of p53-dependent downstream genes, such as p21, in U87 (wild-type p53), but not in SaOS-2 osteosarcoma (p53 −/−) cells. We showed that PET, with [124I]FIAU (2′-fluoro-2′-deoxy-1-β-d-arabinofuranosyl-5-[124I]iodouracil) and the Cis-p53TKGFP reporter system, is sufficiently sensitive to image the transcriptional regulation of genes in the p53 signal transduction pathway. These imaging results were confirmed by independent measurements of p53 activity and the expression levels of downstream genes (e.g., p21) by using conventional molecular-biological assays. PET imaging of p53 transcriptional activity in tumor xenografts by using the Cis-p53TKGFP reporter system may be useful in assessing novel therapeutic approaches.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Myostatin is a transforming growth factor-β family member that acts as a negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass. To identify possible myostatin inhibitors that may have applications for promoting muscle growth, we investigated the regulation of myostatin signaling. Myostatin protein purified from mammalian cells consisted of a noncovalently held complex of the N-terminal propeptide and a disulfide-linked dimer of C-terminal fragments. The purified C-terminal myostatin dimer was capable of binding the activin type II receptors, Act RIIB and, to a lesser extent, Act RIIA. Binding of myostatin to Act RIIB could be inhibited by the activin-binding protein follistatin and, at higher concentrations, by the myostatin propeptide. To determine the functional significance of these interactions in vivo, we generated transgenic mice expressing high levels of the propeptide, follistatin, or a dominant-negative form of Act RIIB by using a skeletal muscle-specific promoter. Independent transgenic mouse lines for each construct exhibited dramatic increases in muscle mass comparable to those seen in myostatin knockout mice. Our findings suggest that the propeptide, follistatin, or other molecules that block signaling through this pathway may be useful agents for enhancing muscle growth for both human therapeutic and agricultural applications.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In neuronal cells, presenilin-dependent γ-secretase activity cleaves amyloid precursor proteins to release Aβ peptides, and also catalyzes the release of the intracellular domain of the transmembrane receptor Notch. Accumulation of aberrant Aβ peptides appears to be causally related to Alzheimer's disease. Inhibition of Aβ peptide production is therefore a potential target for therapeutic intervention. Notch proteins play an important role in cell fate determination in many different organisms and at different stages of development, for example in mammalian T cell development. We therefore addressed whether structurally diverse γ-secretase inhibitors impair Notch function by studying thymocyte development in murine fetal thymic organ cultures. Here we show that high concentrations of the most potent inhibitors blocked thymocyte development at the most immature stage. In contrast, lower concentrations or less potent inhibitors impaired differentiation at a later stage, most notably suppressing the development of CD8 single-positive T cells. These phenotypes are consistent with an impairment of Notch signaling by γ-secretase inhibitors and define a strict Notch dose dependence of consecutive stages during thymocyte development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA immunization, although attractive, is poor for inducing mucosal immunity, thus limiting its protective value against most infectious agents. To surmount this shortcoming, we devised a method for mucosal transgene vaccination by using an M cell ligand to direct the DNA vaccine to mucosal inductive tissues and the respiratory epithelium. This ligand, reovirus protein σ1, when conjugated to polylysine (PL), can bind the apical surface of M cells from nasal-associated lymphoid tissues. Intranasal immunizations with protein σ1-PL-DNA complexes produced antigen-specific serum IgG and prolonged mucosal IgA, as well as enhanced cell-mediated immunity, made evident by elevated pulmonary cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses. Therefore, targeted transgene vaccination represents an approach for enabling DNA vaccination of the mucosa.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mice lacking suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) exhibited embryonic lethality with death occurring between days 11 and 13 of gestation. At this stage, SOCS3−/− embryos were slightly smaller than wild type but appeared otherwise normal, and histological analysis failed to detect any anatomical abnormalities responsible for the lethal phenotype. Rather, in all SOCS3−/− embryos examined, defects were evident in placental development that would account for their developmental arrest and death. The placental spongiotrophoblast layer was significantly reduced and accompanied by increased numbers of giant trophoblast cells. Delayed branching of the chorioallantois was evident, and, although embryonic blood vessels were present in the labyrinthine layer of SOCS3−/− placentas, the network of embryonic vessels and maternal sinuses was poorly developed. Yolk sac erythropoiesis was normal, and, although the SOCS3−/− fetal liver was small at day 12.5 of gestation (E12.5), normal frequencies of erythroblasts and hematopoietic progenitor cells, including blast forming unit-erythroid (BFU-E) and, colony forming unit-erythroid (CFU-E) were present at both E11.5 and E12.5. Colony formation for both BFU-E and CFU-E from SOCS3−/− mice displayed wild-type quantitative responsiveness to erythropoietin (EPO), in the presence or absence of IL-3 or stem cell factor (SCF). These data suggest that SOCS3 is required for placental development but dispensable for normal hematopoiesis in the mouse embryo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The incidence of pediatric adrenal cortical carcinoma (ACC) in southern Brazil is 10–15 times higher than that of pediatric ACC worldwide. Because childhood ACC is associated with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, we examined the cancer history and p53 status of 36 Brazilian patients and their families. Remarkably, 35 of 36 patients had an identical germ-line point mutation of p53 encoding an R337H amino acid substitution. Differences within intragenic polymorphic markers demonstrated that at least some mutant alleles arose independently, thus eliminating a founder effect. In tumor cells, the wild-type allele was deleted, and mutant p53 protein accumulated within the nuclei. Although these features are consistent with Li-Fraumeni syndrome-associated adrenal tumors, there was no history of increased cancer incidence among family members. Therefore, this inherited R337H p53 mutation represents a low-penetrance p53 allele that contributes in a tissue-specific manner to the development of pediatric ACC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Therapy for ischemic heart disease has been directed traditionally at limiting cell necrosis. We determined by genome profiling whether ischemic myocardium can trigger a genetic program promoting cardiac cell survival, which would be a novel and potentially equally important mechanism of salvage. Although cardiac genomics is usually performed in rodents, we used a swine model of ischemia/reperfusion followed by ventricular dysfunction (stunning), which more closely resembles clinical conditions. Gene expression profiles were compared by subtractive hybridization between ischemic and normal tissue of the same hearts. About one-third (23/74) of the nuclear-encoded genes that were up-regulated in ischemic myocardium participate in survival mechanisms (inhibition of apoptosis, cytoprotection, cell growth, and stimulation of translation). The specificity of this response was confirmed by Northern blot and quantitative PCR. Unexpectedly, this program also included genes not previously described in cardiomyocytes. Up-regulation of survival genes was more profound in subendocardium over subepicardium, reflecting that this response in stunned myocardium was proportional to the severity of the ischemic insult. Thus, in a swine model that recapitulates human heart disease, nonlethal ischemia activates a genomic program of cell survival that relates to the time course of myocardial stunning and differs transmurally in relation to ischemic stress, which induced the stunning. Understanding the genes up-regulated during myocardial stunning, including those not previously described in the heart, and developing strategies that activate this program may open new avenues for therapy in ischemic heart disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein glycosylation has been long recognized as an important posttranslational modification process in eukaryotic cells. Glycoproteins, predominantly secreted or surface localized, have also been identified in bacteria. We have identified a cluster of 14 genes, encoding the determinants of the flagellin glycosylation machinery in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAK, which we called the flagellin glycosylation island. Flagellin glycosylation can be detected only in bacteria expressing the a-type flagellin sequence variants, and the survey of 30 P. aeruginosa isolates revealed coinheritance of the a-type flagellin genes with at least one of the flagellin glycosylation island genes. Expression of the b-type flagellin in PAK, an a-type strain carrying the glycosylation island, did not lead to glycosylation of the b-type flagellin of PAO1, suggesting that flagellins expressed by b-type bacteria not only lack the glycosylation island, they cannot serve as substrates for glycosylation. Providing the entire glycosylation island of PAK, including its a-type flagellin in a flagellin mutant of a b-type strain, results in glycosylation of the heterologous flagellin. These results suggest that some or all of the 14 genes on the glycosylation island are the genes that are missing from strain PAO1 to allow glycosylation of an appropriate flagellin. Inactivation of either one of the two flanking genes present on this island abolished flagellin glycosylation. Based on the limited homologies of these gene products with enzymes involved in glycosylation, we propose that the island encodes similar proteins involved in synthesis, activation, or polymerization of sugars that are necessary for flagellin glycosylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Holins comprise the most diverse functional group of proteins known. They are small bacteriophage-encoded proteins that accumulate during the period of late-protein synthesis after infection and cause lysis of the host cell at a precise genetically programmed time. It is unknown how holins achieve temporal precision, but a conserved feature of their function is that energy poisons subvert the normal scheduling mechanism and instantly trigger membrane disruption. On this basis, timing has been proposed to involve a progressive decrease in the energized state of the membrane until a critical triggering level is reached. Here, we report that membrane integrity is not compromised after the induction of holin synthesis until seconds before lysis. The proton motive force was monitored by the rotation of individual cells tethered by a single flagellum. The results suggest an alternative explanation for the lysis “clock,” in which holin concentrations build to a critical level that leads to formation of an oligomeric complex that disrupts the membrane.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The recently discovered prokaryotic signal transducer HemAT, which has been described in both Archaea and Bacteria, mediates aerotactic responses. The N-terminal regions of HemAT from the archaeon Halobacterium salinarum (HemAT-Hs) and from the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis (HemAT-Bs) contain a myoglobin-like motif, display characteristic heme–protein absorption spectra, and bind oxygen reversibly. Recombinant HemAT-Hs and HemAT-Bs shorter than 195 and 176 residues, respectively, do not bind heme effectively. Sequence homology comparisons and three-dimensional modeling predict that His-123 is the proximal heme-binding residue in HemAT from both species. The work described here used site-specific mutagenesis and spectroscopy to confirm this prediction, thereby providing direct evidence for a functional domain of prokaryotic signal transducers that bind heme in a globin fold. We postulate that this domain is part of a globin-coupled sensor (GCS) motif that exists as a two-domain transducer having no similarity to the PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS)-domain superfamily transducers. Using the GCS motif, we have identified several two-domain sensors in a variety of prokaryotes. We have cloned, expressed, and purified two potential globin-coupled sensors and performed spectral analysis on them. Both bind heme and show myoglobin-like spectra. This observation suggests that the general function of GCS-type transducers is to bind diatomic oxygen and perhaps other gaseous ligands, and to transmit a conformational signal through a linked signaling domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Filamentous phage f1 is exported from its Escherichia coli host without killing the bacterial cell. Phage-encoded protein pIV, which is required for phage assembly and secretion, forms large highly conductive channels in the outer membrane of E. coli. It has been proposed that the phage are extruded across the bacterial outer membrane through pIV channels. To test this prediction, we developed an in vivo assay by using a mutant pIV that functions in phage export but whose channel opens in the absence of phage extrusion. In E. coli lacking its native maltooligosacharride transporter LamB, this pIV variant allowed oligosaccharide transport across the outer membrane. This entry of oligosaccharide was decreased by phage production and still further decreased by production of phage that cannot be released from the cell surface. Thus, exiting phage block the pIV-dependent entry of oligosaccharide, suggesting that phage occupy the lumen of pIV channels. This study provides the first evidence, to our knowledge, for viral exit through a large aqueous channel.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Staphylococcus aureus is a medically important bacterial pathogen that is a common cause of superficial and deep-seated abscesses in humans. Most S. aureus isolates produce either a serotype 5 or 8 capsular polysaccharide (CP) that has been shown to enhance bacterial virulence. We investigated the role of S. aureus CPs in modulating abscess formation in an experimental animal model of intraabdominal infection. Structural studies of CP8 revealed that it has a zwitterionic charge motif conferred by the negatively charged carboxyl group of N-acetylmannosaminuronic acid and free amino groups available on partially N-acetylated fucosamine residues. We report that purified CP5 and CP8 facilitated intraabdominal abscess formation in animals when given i.p. with a sterile cecal contents adjuvant. Chemical modifications that neutralized the positively or negatively charged groups on CP8 abrogated its ability to provoke abscesses. Rats prophylactically treated with CP8 s.c. were protected against abscess formation induced by homologous or heterologous zwitterionic polysaccharides. Likewise, treatment with CP8 protected against challenge with viable S. aureus strains PS80 (a capsule type 8 strain) or COL (a methicillin-resistant capsule type 5 strain). Purified CP8 was a potent activator of rat and human CD4+ T cells in vitro. When transferred to naïve rats, these activated T cells modulated the development of intraabdominal abscess formation. These results provide a structure/function rationale for abscess formation by S. aureus and expand the sphere of encapsulated organisms that interact directly with T cells to regulate this host response to bacterial infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The medicinal properties of marijuana have been recognized for centuries, but clinical and societal acceptance of this drug of abuse as a potential therapeutic agent remains fiercely debated. An attractive alternative to marijuana-based therapeutics would be to target the molecular pathways that mediate the effects of this drug. To date, these neural signaling pathways have been shown to comprise a cannabinoid receptor (CB1) that binds the active constituent of marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and a postulated endogenous CB1 ligand anandamide. Although anandamide binds and activates the CB1 receptor in vitro, this compound induces only weak and transient cannabinoid behavioral effects in vivo, possibly a result of its rapid catabolism. Here we show that mice lacking the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH−/−) are severely impaired in their ability to degrade anandamide and when treated with this compound, exhibit an array of intense CB1-dependent behavioral responses, including hypomotility, analgesia, catalepsy, and hypothermia. FAAH−/−-mice possess 15-fold augmented endogenous brain levels of anandamide and display reduced pain sensation that is reversed by the CB1 antagonist SR141716A. Collectively, these results indicate that FAAH is a key regulator of anandamide signaling in vivo, setting an endogenous cannabinoid tone that modulates pain perception. FAAH may therefore represent an attractive pharmaceutical target for the treatment of pain and neuropsychiatric disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Odorant receptors (ORs) constitute the molecular basis for the detection of volatile odorous molecules and the perception of smell. Our understanding of chemical senses has been greatly expanded by the discovery of the OR gene families in vertebrates and in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Recently, candidate Drosophila OR genes have been identified. The putative ORs do not possess any primary sequence identity with known vertebrate or C. elegans receptors, but belong to the family of G protein-coupled receptors according to their predicted seven transmembrane topology. To prove olfactory function of these proteins, we expressed a member of the putative Drosophila OR gene family, Or43a, in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Using two-electrode voltage-clamp recording we identified four odors (cyclohexanone, cyclohexanol, benzaldehyde, and benzyl alcohol) that activated the receptor at low micromolar concentration and structurally related substances that did not. This report shows the function and specificity of a member of the recently identified family of Drosophila ORs expressed in a heterologous system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fifty nine candidate olfactory receptor (Or) genes have recently been identified in Drosophila melanogaster, one of which is Or43a. In wild-type flies, Or43a is expressed at the distal edge of the third antennal segment in about 15 Or neurons. To identify ligands for the receptor we used the Gal4/UAS system to misexpress Or43a in the third antennal segment. Or43a mRNA expression in the antenna of transformed and wild-type flies was visualized by in situ hybridization with a digoxigenin-labeled probe. Electroantennogram recordings from transformed and wild-type flies were used to identify cyclohexanol, cyclohexanone, benzaldehyde, and benzyl alcohol as ligands for the Or43a. This in vivo analysis reveals functional properties of one member of the recently isolated Or family in Drosophila and will provide further insight into our understanding of olfactory coding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
What determines the firing rate of cortical neurons in the absence of external sensory input or motor behavior, such as during sleep? Here we report that, in a familiar environment, the discharge frequency of simultaneously recorded individual CA1 pyramidal neurons and the coactivation of cell pairs remain highly correlated across sleep–wake–sleep sequences. However, both measures were affected when new sets of neurons were activated in a novel environment. Nevertheless, the grand mean firing rate of the whole pyramidal cell population remained constant across behavioral states and testing conditions. The findings suggest that long-term firing patterns of single cells can be modified by experience. We hypothesize that increased firing rates of recently used neurons are associated with a concomitant decrease in the discharge activity of the remaining population, leaving the mean excitability of the hippocampal network unaltered.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using MRI, we report the observation of a transient decrease of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) of water in the human brain visual cortex during activation by a black and white 8-Hz-flickering checkerboard. The ADC decrease was small (<1%), but significant and reproducible, and closely followed the time course of the activation paradigm. Based on the known sensitivity of diffusion MRI to cell size in tissues and on optical imaging studies that have revealed changes in the shape of neurons and glial cells during activation, the observed ADC findings have been tentatively ascribed to a transient swelling of cortical cells. These preliminary results suggest a new approach to produce images of brain activation with MRI from signals directly associated with neuronal activation, and not through changes in local blood flow.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Retinoic acid (RA) induces cell cycle arrest and differentiation of human neuroblastoma (NB) cells. Typically, NB cells differentiate along the neuronal lineage, but quiescent, “flat” cell types frequently have been described after treatment with differentiating agents. Two indistinguishable subclones of the cell line SK-N-SH, SK-N-SH-N (SH-N) and SK-N-SH-F (SH-F), display dramatically different responses to RA. In SH-N, RA induces neuronal differentiation, but in SH-F it transforms the small neuroblastic cells into large, flattened, epithelium-like cells. Here we analyze the mechanistic basis for the different effects of RA in the two NB subclones. First, we show that the flattened RA-treated SH-F expresses markers of cells undergoing replicative senescence. Inhibition of DNA synthesis by RA is significantly more rapid in SH-F than in SH-N. SH-F, which expresses basal amounts of p16INK4A, responds to RA with elevation of p18INK4C, marked down-regulation of cyclin D1, and swift inhibition of cyclin D-dependent kinases (cdks). Conversely, after addition of RA, SH-N retains cell cycling due to high expression of cyclin D1, the absence of Ink4 inhibitors, and accumulation of p21Cip1. These changes result in sustained cdk activity. Accordingly, overexpression of p21Cip1 but not p16INK4A induces neuronal differentiation of untreated NB cells. We propose that rapid inhibition of cdks by RA in NB leads to early cell cycle arrest, prevents neuronal differentiation, and results in a senescence-like state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hippocampal inhibitory interneurons play important roles in controlling the excitability and synchronization of pyramidal cells, but whether they express long-term synaptic plasticity that contributes to hippocampal network function remains uncertain. We found that pairing postsynaptic depolarization with θ-burst stimulation induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of putative single-fiber excitatory postsynaptic currents in interneurons. Either postsynaptic depolarization or θ-burst stimulation alone failed to induce LTP. LTP was expressed as a decrease in failure rates and an increase in excitatory postsynaptic current amplitude, independent of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, and dependent on metabotropic glutamate receptors subtype 1a. LTP was induced specifically in interneurons in stratum oriens and not in interneurons of stratum radiatum/lacunosum-moleculare. Thus, excitatory synapses onto specific subtypes of inhibitory interneurons express a new form of hebbian LTP that will contribute to hippocampal network plasticity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Caffeine is believed to act by blocking adenosine A1 and A2A receptors (A1R, A2AR), indicating that some A1 receptors are tonically activated. We generated mice with a targeted disruption of the second coding exon of the A1R (A1R−/−). These animals bred and gained weight normally and had a normal heart rate, blood pressure, and body temperature. In most behavioral tests they were similar to A1R+/+ mice, but A1R−/− mice showed signs of increased anxiety. Electrophysiological recordings from hippocampal slices revealed that both adenosine-mediated inhibition and theophylline-mediated augmentation of excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission were abolished in A1R−/− mice. In A1R+/− mice the potency of adenosine was halved, as was the number of A1R. In A1R−/− mice, the analgesic effect of intrathecal adenosine was lost, and thermal hyperalgesia was observed, but the analgesic effect of morphine was intact. The decrease in neuronal activity upon hypoxia was reduced both in hippocampal slices and in brainstem, and functional recovery after hypoxia was attenuated. Thus A1Rs do not play an essential role during development, and although they significantly influence synaptic activity, they play a nonessential role in normal physiology. However, under pathophysiological conditions, including noxious stimulation and oxygen deficiency, they are important.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In phocid seals, an increase in hematocrit (Hct) accompanies diving and periods of apnea. The variability of phocid Hct suggests that the total red cell mass is not always in circulation, leading researchers to speculate on the means of blood volume partitioning. The histology and disproportionate size of the phocid spleen implicates it as the likely site for RBC storage. We used magnetic resonance imaging on Northern elephant seals to demonstrate a rapid contraction of the spleen and a simultaneous filling of the hepatic sinus during forced dives (P < 0.0001, R2 = 0.97). The resulting images are clear evidence demonstrating a functional relationship between the spleen and hepatic sinus. The transfer of blood from the spleen to the sinus provides an explanation for the disparity between the timing of diving-induced splenic contraction (≈1–3 min) and the occurrence of peak Hct (15–25 min). Facial immersion was accompanied by an immediate and profound splenic contraction, with no further significant decrease in splenic volume after min 2 (Tukey–Kramer HSD, P = 0.05). At the conclusion of the dive, the spleen had contracted to 16% of its predive volume (mean resting splenic volume = 3,141 ml ± 68.01 ml; 3.54% of body mass). In the postdive period, the spleen required 18–22 min to achieve resting volume, indicating that this species may not have sufficient time to refill the spleen when routinely diving at sea, which is virtually continuous with interdive surface intervals between 1 and 3 min.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sponges (Porifera), the simplest and earliest multicellular organisms, are thought to have evolved from their unicellular ancestors about 1 billion years ago by developing cell-recognition and adhesion mechanisms to discriminate against “non-self.” Consequently, they are used as models for investigating recognition phenomena. Cellular adhesion of marine sponges is an event involving adherence of extracellular proteoglycan-like molecules, otherwise known as aggregation factors (AFs). In a calcium-independent process the AFs adhere to the cell surface, and in a calcium-dependent process they exhibit AF self-association. A mechanism which has been implied but not definitely proven to play a role in the calcium-dependent event is self-recognition of defined carbohydrate epitopes. For the red beard sponge, Microciona prolifera, two carbohydrate epitopes, a sulfated disaccharide and a pyruvylated trisaccharide, have been implicated in cellular adhesion. To investigate this phenomenon a system has been designed, by using surface plasmon resonance detection, to mimic the role of carbohydrates in cellular adhesion of M. prolifera. The results show self-recognition of the sulfated disaccharide to be a major force behind the calcium-dependent event. The interaction is not simply based on electrostatic interactions, as other sulfated carbohydrates analyzed by using this procedure did not self-associate. Furthermore, the interaction is completely eradicated on substitution of Ca2+ ions by either Mg2+ or Mn2+ ions. This physiologically relevant recognition mechanism confirms the existence of true carbohydrate self-recognition, and may have significant implications for the role of carbohydrates in cellular recognition of higher organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A key function of the proximal tubule is retrieval of most of the vast quantities of NaCl and water filtered by the kidney. Physiological studies using brush border vesicles and perfused tubules have indicated that a major fraction of Cl− reabsorption across the apical membrane of proximal tubule cells occurs via Cl−-formate exchange. The molecular identity of the transporter responsible for renal brush border Cl−-formate exchange has yet to be elucidated. As a strategy to identify one or more anion exchangers responsible for mediating Cl− reabsorption in the proximal tubule, we screened the expressed sequence tag database for homologs of pendrin, a transporter previously shown to mediate Cl−-formate exchange. We now report the cDNA cloning of CFEX, a mouse pendrin homolog with expression in the kidney by Northern analysis. Sequence analysis indicated that CFEX very likely represents the mouse ortholog of human SLC26A6. Immunolocalization studies detected expression of CFEX, but not pendrin, on the brush border membrane of proximal tubule cells. Functional expression studies in Xenopus oocytes demonstrated that CFEX mediates Cl−-formate exchange. Taken together, these observations identify CFEX as a prime candidate to mediate Cl−-formate exchange in the proximal tubule and thereby to contribute importantly to renal NaCl reabsorption. Given its wide tissue distribution, CFEX also may contribute to transcellular Cl− transport in additional epithelia such as the pancreas and contribute to transmembrane Cl− transport in nonepithelial tissues such as the heart.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Uptake of organic solutes and xenobiotics by mammalian cells is mediated by ATP-independent transporters, and four families of transporters have now been identified. To search for novel organic solute transporters, a liver cDNA library from an evolutionarily primitive marine vertebrate, the little skate Raja erinacea, was screened for taurocholate transport activity by using Xenopus laevis oocytes. In contrast to the organic anion transporters identified to date, a transport activity was identified in this library that required the coexpression of two distinct gene products, termed organic solute transporter α and β (Ostα, Ostβ). Ostα cDNA encodes for a protein of 352 aa and seven putative transmembrane (TM) domains. Ostβ contains 182 aa and has at least one and perhaps two TM domains. There is no significant sequence identity between Ostα and Ostβ, and only low identity with sequences in the databases; however, Ostα bears a resemblance to some G protein-coupled receptors, and Ostβ exhibits 22% amino acid identity with the C-terminal TM and intracellular domains of protocadherin-γ, a cell surface glycoprotein. Xenopus oocytes injected with the cRNA for both Ostα and Ostβ, but not each separately, were able to take up taurocholate, estrone sulfate, digoxin, and prostaglandin E2, but not p-aminohippurate or S-dinitrophenyl glutathione. Transport was sodium-independent, saturable, and inhibited by organic anions and steroids, including the major skate bile salt, scymnol sulfate. These results identify an organic anion transporter composed of a putative seven-helix TM protein and an ancillary membrane polypeptide.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The phytochrome family of sensory photoreceptors directs adaptational changes in gene expression in response to environmental light signals. Using oligonucleotide microarrays to measure expression profiles in wild-type and phytochrome A (phyA) null-mutant Arabidopsis seedlings, we have shown that 10% of the genes represented on the array are regulated by phyA in response to a continuous far-red light signal. Strikingly, 44% of the genes responding to the signal within 1 h are predicted to encode multiple classes of transcriptional regulators. Together with previous data, this observation suggests that phyA may regulate seedling photomorphogenesis by direct targeting of light signals to the promoters of genes encoding a master set of diverse transcriptional regulators, responsible in turn for orchestrating the expression of multiple downstream target genes in various branches of a phyA-regulated transcriptional network.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The major “benefit” alleged to accrue from transpiration (the evaporative loss of water from plant surfaces) is that it is essential for the long-distance transport of mineral ions, but the possible interrelation between these two processes has rarely been tested. Transpiration was experimentally dissociated from mineral supply by growing sunflowers (Helianthus anuus) in hydroculture and providing mineral nutrients only during the nights. These plants grew as well as a control group that received nutrients only during the day and transpired 12–15 times more water during the exposure period. It thus appears that convective water transport in the xylem, brought about by root pressure and the resultant guttation, “growth water,” and Münch's phloem counterflow is in itself sufficient for long-distance mineral supply and that transpiration is not required for this function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Salicylic acid (SA) plays an important role in activating various plant defense responses, including expression of the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes and systemic acquired resistance. A critical positive regulator of the SA signaling pathway in Arabidopsis is encoded by the NPR1 gene. However, there is growing evidence that NPR1-independent pathways can also activate PR expression and disease resistance. To elucidate the components associated with NPR1-independent defense signaling, we isolated a suppressor of the npr1–5 allele, designated ssi2. The recessive ssi2 mutation confers constitutive PR gene expression, spontaneous lesion formation, and enhanced resistance to Peronospora parasitica. In contrast, a subset of defense responses regulated by the jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathway, including expression of the defensin gene PDF1.2 and resistance to Botrytis cinerea, is impaired in ssi2 plants. With the use of a map-based approach, the SSI2 gene was cloned and shown to encode a stearoyl-ACP desaturase (S-ACP DES). S-ACP DES is an archetypical member of a family of soluble fatty acid (FA) desaturases; these enzymes play an important role in regulating the overall level of desaturated FAs in the cell. The activity of mutant S-ACP DES enzyme was reduced 10-fold, resulting in elevation of the 18:0 FA content in ssi2 plants. Because reduced S-ACP DES activity leads to the induction of certain defense responses and the inhibition of others, we propose that a FA-derived signal modulates crosstalk between different defense signaling pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The haploid liverwort Marchantia polymorpha has heteromorphic sex chromosomes, an X chromosome in the female and a Y chromosome in the male. We here report on the repetitive structure of the liverwort Y chromosome through the analysis of male-specific P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) clones, pMM4G7 and pMM23-130F12. Several chromosome-specific sequence elements of ≈70 to 400 nt are combined into larger arrangements, which in turn are assembled into extensive Y chromosome-specific stretches. These repeat sequences contribute 2–3 Mb to the Y chromosome based on the observations of three different approaches: fluorescence in situ hybridization, dot blot hybridization, and the frequency of clones containing the repeat sequences in the genomic library. A novel Y chromosome-specific gene family was found embedded among these repeat sequences. This gene family encodes a putative protein with a RING finger motif and is expressed specifically in male sexual organs. To our knowledge, there have been no other reports for an active Y chromosome-specific gene in plants. The chromosome-specific repeat sequences possibly contribute to determining the identity of the Y chromosome in M. polymorpha as well as to maintaining genes required for male functions, as in mammals such as human.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A prominent feature of comparative life histories in fish (and other indeterminate growers) is the approximate invariance across species of certain dimensionless numbers made up from reproductive and timing variables. The two best known are the age at maturity (α) divided by the average adult lifespan (E), and the proportion of a body mass given to reproduction per year (c) multiplied by E. This article uses evolutionary life-history theory for nongrowing populations to predict the numeric value of these numbers for fish and lizards, with several new implications for the dynamics of ontogenetic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
For the last 20 years, fragment assembly in DNA sequencing
 followed the “overlap–layout–consensus” paradigm that is used
 in all currently available assembly tools. Although this approach
 proved useful in assembling clones, it faces difficulties in genomic
 shotgun assembly. We abandon the classical
 “overlap–layout–consensus” approach in favor of a new
 euler algorithm that, for the first time, resolves the
 20-year-old “repeat problem” in fragment assembly. Our main
 result is the reduction of the fragment assembly to a variation of the
 classical Eulerian path problem that allows one to generate accurate
 solutions of large-scale sequencing problems. euler, in
 contrast to the celera assembler, does not mask such
 repeats but uses them instead as a powerful fragment assembly tool.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent calculations of electron impact excitation rates and
 Einstein A-coefficients for transitions among the
 3d6 levels of Fe III and among the
 3d2 levels of Fe VII are used to derive
 theoretical emission line ratios applicable to the optical and infrared
 spectra of gaseous nebulae. Results for [Fe III] are generated for
 electron temperatures Te =
 7,000–20,000 K and densities Ne =
 102-108 cm−3, whereas those for
 [Fe VII] are provided for Te =
 10,000–30,000 K and Ne =
 102-108 cm−3. The theoretical line
 ratios are significantly different in some instances from earlier
 calculations and resolve discrepancies between theory and observation
 found for the planetary nebulae IC 4997 and NGC 7027.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A 4-fold symmetric arrangement of TVGYG polypeptides forms the
 selectivity filter of the K+ channel from
 Streptomyces lividans (KcsA). We report the synthesis
 and properties of synthetic models for the filter,
 p-tert-butyl-calix[4]arene-(OCH2CO-XOBz)4
 (X = V, VG, VGY), 1–3. The first cation (Na+,
 K+) binds to the four -{OCH2CO}- units, a
 region devised to mimic the metal-binding site formed by the four T
 residues in KcsA. NMR studies reveal that cations and valine amide
 protons compete for the carbonyl oxygen atoms, converting
 N—HVal⋅⋅⋅O⩵C hydrogen bonds to
 M+⋅⋅⋅O⩵C bonds (M+ =
 Na+ or K+). The strength of these interchain
 N—HVal⋅⋅⋅O⩵C hydrogen bonds varies in
 the order 3 > 2 > 1. We propose that such interchain
 H-bonding may destabilize metal binding in the selectivity filter and
 thus help create the low energy barrier needed for rapid cation
 translocation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Successful interpretation of available geophysical data requires
 experimental and theoretical information on the elasticity of solids
 under physical conditions of Earth's interior. Because iron is
 considered as major component in Earth's core, elastic properties of
 iron at high pressures and temperatures are very important for modeling
 its composition and dynamics. We use in situ x-ray
 diffraction data on ɛ-iron at static pressures up to 300 GPa and
 temperatures to 1,200 K to determine the Debye–Waller temperature
 factors and calculate aggregate sound velocities and Grüneisen
 parameter of ɛ-iron by using an approach that is based on Rietveld
 refinement at high pressures and temperatures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present a scheme for a quantum optical implementation of
 Grover's algorithm based on resonant atomic interactions with
 classical fields and dispersive couplings with quantized cavity fields.
 The proposed scheme depends on preparation of entangled states and is
 within current state-of-the-art technology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The human fossil evidence unequivocally pertaining to the first
 inhabitants of Europe at present includes the sample from Atapuerca-TD6
 (Spain) and the incomplete adult calvaria discovered near Ceprano, in
 Southern Latium (Italy). On the basis of regional correlations and a
 series of absolute dates, the age of the Ceprano hominid is estimated
 to range between 800 and 900 kilo-annum (ka). In addition, the
 association with archaic (Mode 1) Paleolithic findings from the same
 area is suggested. After the completed reconstruction of the calvaria,
 we present here a new study dealing with the general and more detailed
 aspects of the morphology displayed by Ceprano, in comparison to fossil
 samples ranging between Early and Middle Pleistocene. According to our
 results, cranial features indicate that Ceprano represents a unique
 morphological bridge between the clade Homo
 ergaster/erectus and later Middle Pleistocene
 specimens commonly referred to Homo heidelbergensis
 (and/or to Homo rhodesiensis), particularly those
 belonging to the African fossil record that ultimately relates to the
 origin of modern humans. In conclusion, given its geographical,
 chronological, and phylogenetic position, an attribution to the species
 Homo antecessor is considered, although the sample from
 Atapuerca-TD6 is not directly comparable to Ceprano. Alternatively, a
 new species—ancestral to later European and African hominines—should
 be named to accommodate such a unique fossil specimen.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human craniofacial data were used to assess the similarities
 and differences between recent and prehistoric Old World samples, and
 between these samples and a similar representation of samples from the
 New World. The data were analyzed by the neighbor-joining clustering
 procedure, assisted by bootstrapping and by canonical discriminant
 analysis score plots. The first entrants to the Western Hemisphere of
 maybe 15,000 years ago gave rise to the continuing native inhabitants
 south of the U.S.–Canadian border. These show no close association
 with any known mainland Asian population. Instead they show ties to the
 Ainu of Hokkaido and their Jomon predecessors in prehistoric Japan and
 to the Polynesians of remote Oceania. All of these also have ties to
 the Pleistocene and recent inhabitants of Europe and may represent an
 extension from a Late Pleistocene continuum of people across the
 northern fringe of the Old World. With roots in both the northwest and
 the northeast, these people can be described as Eurasian. The route of
 entry to the New World was at the northwestern edge. In contrast, the
 Inuit (Eskimo), the Aleut, and the Na-Dene speakers who had penetrated
 as far as the American Southwest within the last 1,000 years show more
 similarities to the mainland populations of East Asia. Although both
 the earlier and later arrivals in the New World show a mixture of
 traits characteristic of the northern edge of Old World occupation and
 the Chinese core of mainland Asia, the proportion of the latter is
 greater for the more recent entrants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A 4-fold symmetric arrangement of TVGYG polypeptides forms the
 selectivity filter of the K+ channel from
 Streptomyces lividans (KcsA). We report the synthesis
 and properties of synthetic models for the filter,
 p-tert-butyl-calix[4]arene-(OCH2CO-XOBz)4
 (X = V, VG, VGY), 1–3. The first cation (Na+,
 K+) binds to the four -{OCH2CO}- units, a
 region devised to mimic the metal-binding site formed by the four T
 residues in KcsA. NMR studies reveal that cations and valine amide
 protons compete for the carbonyl oxygen atoms, converting
 N—HVal⋅⋅⋅O⩵C hydrogen bonds to
 M+⋅⋅⋅O⩵C bonds (M+ =
 Na+ or K+). The strength of these interchain
 N—HVal⋅⋅⋅O⩵C hydrogen bonds varies in
 the order 3 > 2 > 1. We propose that such interchain
 H-bonding may destabilize metal binding in the selectivity filter and
 thus help create the low energy barrier needed for rapid cation
 translocation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Selenophosphate is the active selenium-donor compound required by
 bacteria and mammals for the specific synthesis of Secys-tRNA, the
 precursor of selenocysteine in selenoenzymes. Although free selenide
 can be used in vitro for the synthesis of
 selenophosphate, the actual physiological selenium substrate has not
 been identified. Rhodanese (EC 2.3.1.1) normally occurs as a persulfide
 of a critical cysteine residue and is believed to function as a
 sulfur-delivery protein. Also, it has been demonstrated that a
 selenium-substituted rhodanese (E-Se form) can exist in
 vitro. In this study, we have prepared and characterized an
 E-Se rhodanese. Persulfide-free bovine-liver rhodanese (E form) did not
 react with SeO directly, but in the presence of
 reduced glutathione (GSH) and SeO E-Se rhodanese
 was generated. These results indicate that the intermediates produced
 from the reaction of GSH with SeO are required for
 the formation of a selenium-substituted rhodanese. E-Se rhodanese was
 stable in the presence of excess GSH at neutral pH at 37°C. E-Se
 rhodanese could effectively replace the high concentrations of selenide
 normally used in the selenophosphate synthetase in vitro
 assay in which the selenium-dependent hydrolysis of ATP is measured.
 These results show that a selenium-bound rhodanese could be used as the
 selenium donor in the in vitro selenophosphate synthetase
 assay.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The D3-phosphoinositides act as second messengers by recruiting,
 and thereby activating, diverse signaling proteins. We have previously
 described the purification of a rat phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate
 [PtdIns(3)P] 3-phosphatase, comprising a heterodimer of a 78-kDa
 adapter subunit in complex with a 65-kDa catalytic subunit. Here, we
 have cloned and characterized the cDNA encoding the human 3-phosphatase
 adapter subunit (3-PAP). Sequence alignment showed that 3-PAP shares
 significant sequence similarity with the protein and lipid
 3-phosphatase myotubularin, and with several other members of the
 myotubularin gene family including SET-binding factor 1. However,
 unlike myotubularin, 3-PAP does not contain a consensus
 HCX5R catalytic motif. The 3-PAP sequence contains several
 motifs that predict interaction with proteins containing Src homology-2
 (SH2) domains, phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domains, members of the
 14-3-3 family, as well as proteins with SET domains. Northern blot
 analysis identified two transcripts (5.5 kb and 2.5 kb) with highest
 abundance in human liver, kidney, lung, and placenta. 3-PAP
 immunoprecipitates isolated from platelet cytosol hydrolyzed the
 D3-phosphate from PtdIns(3)P and PtdIns 3,4-bisphosphate
 [PtdIns(3,4)P2]. However, insect cell-expressed 3-PAP
 recombinant protein was catalytically inactive, confirming our prior
 prediction that this polypeptide represents an adapter subunit.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Manganese(II) has been shown to exhibit catalase-like
 activity under physiological conditions. In the course of studies to
 test the antioxidant activity of Mn(II) on HeLa cells, it was observed
 at high concentrations (1–2 mM) that Mn(II) also induced
 apoptosis, as judged by changes in cell morphology, caspase-3
 activation, cleavage of poly(ADP) ribose, and DNA condensation.
 However, in contrast to established mechanisms, the Mn(II)-induced
 apoptosis is associated with an increase rather than a decrease
 in mitochondrial inner-membrane potential, as monitored by the
 fluorescent probe tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester. Based on
 immunochemical analysis, Mn(II)-induced apoptosis does not lead
 to the release of cytochrome c into the cytosol. These
 and other measurements show that treatment with Mn(II) leads to
 enhancement of the mitochondrial “membrane mass,” has no effect
 on mitochondrial volume, and does not affect the permeability
 transition pore. Together, these results support the view that
 Mn(II)-induced apoptosis occurs by a heretofore unrecognized
 mechanism. In addition, it was demonstrated that Mn(II) treatment leads
 to an increase in the production of reactive oxygen species (peroxides)
 and to the induction of the manganese superoxide dismutase and catalase
 activities but has no effect on the Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-22 is an IL-10 homologue that binds to and signals through the
 class II cytokine receptor heterodimer IL-22RA1/CRF2–4. IL-22 is
 produced by T cells and induces the production of acute-phase reactants
 in vitro and in vivo, suggesting its
 involvement in inflammation. Here we report the identification of a
 class II cytokine receptor designated IL-22RA2 (IL-22 receptor-α 2)
 that appears to be a naturally expressed soluble receptor. IL-22RA2
 shares amino acid sequence homology with IL-22RA1 (also known as
 IL-22R, zcytor11, and CRF2–9) and is physically adjacent to IL-20Rα
 and IFN-γR1 on chromosome 6q23.3–24.2. We demonstrate that IL-22RA2
 binds specifically to IL-22 and neutralizes IL-22-induced proliferation
 of BaF3 cells expressing IL-22 receptor subunits. IL-22RA2 mRNA is
 highly expressed in placenta and spleen by Northern blotting. PCR
 analysis using RNA from various tissues and cell lines showed that
 IL-22RA2 was expressed in a range of tissues, including those in the
 digestive, female reproductive, and immune systems. In
 situ hybridization revealed the dominant cell types expressing
 IL-22RA2 were mononuclear cells and epithelium. Because IL-22 induces
 the expression of acute phase reactants, IL-22RA2 may play an important
 role as an IL-22 antagonist in the regulation of inflammatory
 responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The problem of the propagation of conformational changes over long
 distances or through a closely packed protein is shown to fit a model
 of a ligand-induced conformational change between two protein states
 selected by evolution. Moreover, the kinetics of the pathway between
 these states is also selected so that the energy of ligand binding and
 the speed of the transition between conformational states are
 physiologically appropriate. The crystallographic data of a wild-type
 aspartate receptor that has negative cooperativity and a mutant that
 has no cooperativity but has native transmembrane signaling are shown
 to support this model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Flavodoxins are electron-transfer proteins that contain the
 prosthetic group flavin mononucleotide. In Escherichia
 coli, flavodoxin is reduced by the FAD-containing protein
 NADPH:ferredoxin (flavodoxin) oxidoreductase; flavodoxins serve as
 electron donors in the reductive activation of anaerobic ribonucleotide
 reductase, biotin synthase, pyruvate formate lyase, and
 cobalamin-dependent methionine synthase. In addition, domains
 homologous to flavodoxin are components of the multidomain
 flavoproteins cytochrome P450 reductase, nitric oxide synthase, and
 methionine synthase reductase. Although three-dimensional structures
 are known for many of these proteins and domains, very little is known
 about the structural aspects of their interactions. We address this
 issue by using NMR chemical shift mapping to identify the surfaces on
 flavodoxin that bind flavodoxin reductase and methionine synthase. We
 find that these physiological partners bind to unique overlapping sites
 on flavodoxin, precluding the formation of ternary complexes. We infer
 that the flavodoxin-like domains of the cytochrome P450 reductase
 family form mutually exclusive complexes with their electron-donating
 and -accepting partners, complexes that require conformational changes
 for interconversion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A molecular dynamics study was performed to compare the differences
 in the active-site dynamics of the wild-type and W137F mutant enzymes
 of 4-chlorobenzoyl-CoA dehalogenase. Only in the wild-type simulation
 are conformations formed between the catalytic Asp-145 and
 4-chlorobenzoyl-CoA, which resemble the ab initio
 calculated gas-phase transition-state geometry. In the W137F
 simulation, the hydrogen bond formed between His-90 and Asp-145
 persisted throughout the simulation, causing the carboxylate of Asp-145
 to be distant from the benzoyl ring of 4-chlorobenzoyl-CoA. In both
 simulations, water molecules were able to diffuse into the active site
 of the enzymes. The trajectories provide insight into the routes that
 water may use to get into position for the hydrolysis portion of the
 dehalogenation reaction. In both simulations, the water molecule
 entering the active site forms a hydrogen bond with Asp-145.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Thioredoxin reductases (TrxRs) from mammalian cells contain an
 essential selenocysteine residue in the conserved C-terminal sequence
 Gly-Cys-SeCys-Gly forming a selenenylsulfide in the oxidized enzyme.
 Reduction by NADPH generates a selenolthiol, which is the active site
 in reduction of Trx. The three-dimensional structure of the SeCys498Cys
 mutant of rat TrxR in complex with NADP+ has been
 determined to 3.0-Å resolution by x-ray crystallography. The overall
 structure is similar to that of glutathione reductase (GR), including
 conserved amino acid residues binding the cofactors FAD and NADPH.
 Surprisingly, all residues directly interacting with the substrate
 glutathione disulfide in GR are conserved despite the failure of
 glutathione disulfide to act as a substrate for TrxR. The 16-residue
 C-terminal tail, which is unique to mammalian TrxR, folds in such a way
 that it can approach the active site disulfide of the other subunit in
 the dimer. A model of the complex of TrxR with Trx suggests that
 electron transfer from NADPH to the disulfide of the substrate is
 possible without large conformational changes. The C-terminal extension
 typical of mammalian TrxRs has two functions: (i) it
 extends the electron transport chain from the catalytic disulfide to
 the enzyme surface, where it can react with Trx, and
 (ii) it prevents the enzyme from acting as a GR by
 blocking the redox-active disulfide. Our results suggest that mammalian
 TrxR evolved from the GR scaffold rather than from its prokaryotic
 counterpart. This evolutionary switch renders cell growth dependent on
 selenium.
DOC DONE!Abstract
N-dansylhomocysteine (DnsHCys) is quenched on
 S-nitrosation. The product of this reaction,
 N-dansyl-S-nitrosohomocysteine, is a
 sensitive, direct fluorogenic substrate for the denitrosation activity
 of protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) with an apparent
 KM of 2 μM. S-nitroso-BSA
 (BSA-NO) competitively inhibited this reaction with an apparent
 KI of 1 μM. The oxidized form of DnsHCys,
 N,N-didansylhomocystine, rapidly accumulated in cells
 and was reduced to DnsHCys. The fluorescence of DnsHCys-preloaded human
 umbilical endothelial cells and hamster lung fibroblasts were monitored
 as a function of extracellular BSA-NO concentration via dynamic
 fluorescence microscopy. The observed quenching of the DnsHCys
 fluorescence was an indirect measure of cell surface PDI (csPDI)
 catalyzed denitrosation of extracellular S-nitrosothiols
 as decrease or increase in the csPDI levels in HT1080 fibrosarcoma
 cells correlated with the rate of quenching and the PDI inhibitors,
 5,5′-dithio-bis-3-nitrobenzoate and
 4-(N-(S-glutathionylacetyl)
 amino)phenylarsenoxide inhibited quenching. The apparent
 KM values for denitrosation of BSA-NO by
 csPDI ranged from 12 μM to 30 μM. Depletion of membrane
 N2O3 with the lipophylic antioxidant, vitamin
 E, inhibited csPDI-mediated quenching rates of DnsHCys fluorescence
 by ≈70%. The KM for BSA-NO increased by
 ≈3-fold and Vmax decreased by ≈4-fold.
 These findings suggest that csPDI catalyzed NO released from
 extracellular S-nitrosothiols accumulates in the
 membrane where it reacts with O2 to produce
 N2O3. Intracellular thiols may then be
 nitrosated by N2O3 at the membrane-cytosol
 interface.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Overexpression of the zinc enzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA; EC
 4.2.1.1) XII is observed in certain human cancers. This bitopic
 membrane protein contains an N-terminal extracellular catalytic domain,
 a membrane-spanning α-helix, and a small intracellular C-terminal
 domain. We have determined the three-dimensional structure of the
 extracellular catalytic domain of human CA XII by x-ray
 crystallographic methods at 1.55-Å resolution. The structure reveals a
 prototypical CA fold; however, two CA XII domains associate to form an
 isologous dimer, an observation that is confirmed by studies of the
 enzyme in solution. The identification of signature GXXXG and GXXXS
 motifs in the transmembrane sequence that facilitate helix–helix
 association is additionally consistent with dimeric architecture. The
 dimer interface is situated so that the active site clefts of each
 monomer are clearly exposed on one face of the dimer, and the C termini
 are located together on the opposite face of the dimer to facilitate
 membrane interaction. The amino acid composition of the active-site
 cleft closely resembles that of the other CA isozymes in the immediate
 vicinity of the catalytic zinc ion, but differs in the region of the
 nearby α-helical “130's segment.” The structure of the CA
 XII–acetazolamide complex is also reported at 1.50-Å resolution, and
 prospects for the design of CA XII-specific inhibitors of possible
 chemotherapeutic value are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The correct formation of disulfide bonds in the periplasm of
 Escherichia coli involves Dsb proteins, including two
 related periplasmic disulfide-bond isomerases, DsbC and DsbG. DsbD is a
 membrane protein required to maintain the functional oxidation state of
 DsbC and DsbG. In this work, purified proteins were used to investigate
 the interaction between DsbD and DsbC. A 131-residue N-terminal
 fragment of DsbD (DsbDα) was expressed and purified and shown to form
 a functional folded domain. Gel filtration results indicate that
 DsbDα is monomeric. DsbDα was shown to interact directly with and
 to reduce the DsbC dimer, thus increasing the isomerase activity of
 DsbC. The DsbC–DsbDα complex was characterized, and formation of the
 complex was shown to require the N-terminal dimerization domain of
 DsbC. These results demonstrate that DsbD interacts directly with
 full-length DsbC and imply that no other periplasmic components are
 required to maintain DsbC in the functional reduced state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The gene 2.5 protein (gp2.5) of bacteriophage T7 is a
 single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) binding protein that has essential roles in
 DNA replication and recombination. In addition to binding DNA, gp2.5
 physically interacts with T7 DNA polymerase and T7 primase-helicase
 during replication to coordinate events at the replication fork. We
 have determined a 1.9-Å crystal structure of gp2.5 and show that it
 has a conserved OB-fold (oligosaccharide/oligonucleotide binding
 fold) that is well adapted for interactions with ssDNA. Superposition
 of the OB-folds of gp2.5 and other ssDNA binding proteins reveals a
 conserved patch of aromatic residues that stack against the bases of
 ssDNA in the other crystal structures, suggesting that gp2.5 binds to
 ssDNA in a similar manner. An acidic C-terminal extension of the gp2.5
 protein, which is required for dimer formation and for interactions
 with the T7 DNA polymerase and the primase-helicase, appears to be
 flexible and may act as a switch that modulates the DNA binding
 affinity of gp2.5.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transcriptional activation by, and therefore the physiologic
 impact of, activated tyrosine-phosphorylated STATs
 (signal transducers and
 activators of transcription) may be
 negatively regulated by proteins termed PIAS (protein
 inhibitors of activated
 stats), as shown by previous experiments with mammalian
 cells in culture. Here, by using the genetic modifications in
 Drosophila, we demonstrate the in vivo
 functional interaction of the Drosophila homologues
 stat92E and a Drosophila PIAS gene
 (dpias). To this end we use a LOF allele and
 conditionally overexpressed dpias in JAK-STAT pathway
 mutant backgrounds. We conclude that the correct
 dpias/stat92E ratio is crucial for
 blood cell and eye development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using yeast forward and reverse two-hybrid analyses, we have
 discovered that the replication terminator protein Tus of
 Escherichia coli physically interacts with DnaB helicase
 in vivo. We have confirmed this protein–protein
 interaction in vitro. We show further that replication
 termination involves protein–protein interaction between Tus and DnaB
 at a critical region of Tus protein, called the L1 loop. Several
 mutations located in the L1 loop region not only reduced the
 protein–protein interaction but also eliminated or reduced the ability
 of the mutant forms of Tus to arrest DnaB at a Ter site.
 At least one mutation, E49K, significantly reduced Tus–DnaB
 interaction and almost completely eliminated the contrahelicase
 activity of Tus protein in vitro without significantly
 reducing the affinity of the mutant form of Tus for Ter
 DNA, in comparison with the wild-type protein. The results, considered
 along with the crystal structure of Tus–Ter complex,
 not only elucidate further the mechanism of helicase arrest but also
 explain the molecular basis of polarity of replication fork arrest at
 Ter sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Calcium functions as a trigger for the switch between epithelial
 cell growth and differentiation. We report here that the
 calcium/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin is
 involved in this process. Treatment of primary mouse keratinocytes with
 cyclosporin A, an inhibitor of calcineurin activity, suppresses the
 expression of terminal differentiation markers and of
 p21WAF1/Cip1 and p27KIP1, two cyclin-dependent
 kinase inhibitors that are usually induced with differentiation. In
 parallel with down-modulation of the endogenous genes,
 suppression of calcineurin function blocks induction of the promoters
 for the p21WAF1/Cip1 and loricrin differentiation marker
 genes, whereas activity of these promoters is enhanced by calcineurin
 overexpression. The calcineurin- responsive region of the p21
 promoter maps to a 78-bp Sp1/Sp3-binding sequence next to the TATA
 box, and calcineurin induces activity of the p21 promoter through
 Sp1/Sp3-dependent transcription. We find that the
 endogenous NFAT-1 and -2 transcription factors, major
 downstream targets of calcineurin, associate with Sp1 in keratinocytes
 in a calcineurin-dependent manner, and calcineurin up-regulates
 Sp1/Sp3-dependent transcription and p21 promoter activity in
 synergism with NFAT1/2. Thus, our study reveals an important role for
 calcineurin in control of keratinocyte differentiation and p21
 expression, and points to a so-far-unsuspected interconnection among
 this phosphatase, NFATs, and Sp1/Sp3-dependent transcription.
DOC DONE!Abstract
High levels of RNA polymerase III gene transcription are achieved
 by facilitated recycling of the polymerase on transcription factor IIIB
 (TFIIIB)-DNA complexes that are stable through multiple rounds of
 initiation. TFIIIB-DNA complexes in yeast comprise the TATA-binding
 protein (TBP), the TFIIB-related factor TFIIIB70, and TFIIIB90. The
 high stability of the TFIIIB-DNA complex is conferred by TFIIIB90
 binding to TFIIIB70-TBP-DNA complexes. This stability is thought to
 result from compound bends introduced in the DNA by TBP and TFIIIB90
 and by protein–protein interactions that obstruct DNA dissociation.
 Here we present biochemical evidence that the high stability of
 TFIIIB-DNA complexes results from kinetic trapping of the DNA.
 Thermodynamic analysis shows that the free energies of formation of
 TFIIIB70-TBP-DNA (ΔG° = −12.10 ± 0.12
 kcal/mol) and TFIIIB-DNA (ΔG° = −11.90 ±
 0.14 kcal/mol) complexes are equivalent whereas a kinetic analysis
 shows that the half-lives of these complexes (46 ± 3 min and
 95 ± 6 min, respectively) differ significantly. The differential
 stability of these isoenergetic complexes demonstrates that TFIIIB90
 binding energy is used to drive conformational changes and increase the
 barrier to complex dissociation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutational inactivation of BRCA1 confers a cumulative lifetime risk
 of breast and ovarian cancers. However, the underlying basis for the
 tissue-restricted tumor-suppressive properties of BRCA1 remains poorly
 defined. Here we show that BRCA1 mediates ligand-independent
 transcriptional repression of the estrogen receptor α (ERα), a
 principal determinant of the growth, differentiation, and normal
 functional status of breasts and ovaries. In Brca1-null mouse embryo
 fibroblasts and BRCA1-deficient human ovarian cancer cells, ERα
 exhibited ligand-independent transcriptional activity that was not
 observed in Brca1-proficient cells. Ectopic expression in
 Brca1-deficient cells of wild-type BRCA1, but not clinically validated
 BRCA1 missense mutants, restored ligand-independent repression of ERα
 in a manner dependent upon apparent histone deacetylase activity. In
 estrogen-dependent human breast cancer cells, chromatin
 immunoprecipitation analysis revealed the association of BRCA1 with
 ERα at endogenous estrogen-response elements before, but
 not after estrogen stimulation. Collectively, these results reveal
 BRCA1 to be a ligand-reversible barrier to transcriptional activation
 by unliganded promoter-bound ERα and suggest a possible mechanism by
 which functional inactivation of BRCA1 could promote
 tumorigenesis through inappropriate hormonal regulation of mammary and
 ovarian epithelial cell proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Zinc is essential for many cellular processes, including DNA
 synthesis, transcription, and translation, but excess can be toxic. A
 zinc-induced gene, smtA, is required for normal
 zinc-tolerance in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus PCC
 7942. Here we report that the protein SmtA contains a cleft lined with
 Cys-sulfur and His-imidazole ligands that binds four zinc ions in a
 Zn4Cys9His2 cluster. The thiolate
 sulfurs of five Cys ligands provide bridges between the two
 ZnCys4 and two ZnCys3His sites, giving two
 fused six-membered rings with distorted boat conformations. The
 inorganic core strongly resembles the Zn4Cys11
 cluster of mammalian metallothionein, despite different amino
 acid sequences, a different linear order of the ligands, and presence
 of histidine ligands. Also, SmtA contains elements of secondary
 structure not found in metallothioneins. One of the two
 Cys4-coordinated zinc ions in SmtA readily exchanges with
 exogenous metal (111Cd), whereas the other is inert. The
 thiolate sulfur ligands bound to zinc in this site are buried within
 the protein. Regions of β-strand and α-helix surround the inert
 site to form a zinc finger resembling the zinc fingers in GATA and
 LIM-domain proteins. Eukaryotic zinc fingers interact specifically with
 other proteins or DNA and an analogous interaction can therefore be
 anticipated for prokaryotic zinc fingers. SmtA now provides structural
 proof for the existence of zinc fingers in prokaryotes, and sequences
 related to the zinc finger motif can be identified in several bacterial
 genomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) encoded by the human
 hepatitis C virus RNA genome is shown here to induce the activation of
 NF-κB and STAT-3 transcription factors from its cytoplasmic residence
 via oxidative stress. NS5A causes the disturbance of intracellular
 calcium. Ca2+ signaling triggers the elevation of reactive
 oxygen species in mitochondria, leading to the translocation of NF-κB
 and STAT-3 into the nucleus. Evidence is presented for the
 constitutive activation of STAT-3 by NS5A. In the presence of
 antioxidants [pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), N-acetyl
 l-cysteine (NAC)] or Ca2+ chelators (EGTA-AM,
 TMB-8), NS5A-induced activation of NF-κB and STAT-3 was eliminated.
 These results provide an insight into the mechanism by which NS5A can
 alter intracellular events relevant to liver pathogenesis associated
 with the viral infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) acts through an essential
 relationship with DNA to participate in the regulation of multiple
 cellular processes. Yet the role of DNA as a cofactor in kinase
 activity remains to be completely elucidated. For example, although
 DNA-PK activity appears to be required for the resolution of hairpin
 coding ends in variable diversity joining recombination, kinase
 activity remains to be demonstrated from hairpin ends or other DNA
 structures. In the present study we report that DNA-PK is strongly
 activated from hairpin ends and structured single-stranded DNA, but
 that the phosphorylation of many heterologous substrates is blocked
 efficiently by inactivation of the kinase through autophosphorylation.
 However, substrates that bound efficiently to single-stranded DNA such
 as p53 and replication protein A were efficiently phosphorylated by
 DNA-PK from structured DNA. DNA-PK also was found to be active toward
 heterologous substrates from hairpin ends on double-stranded DNA under
 conditions where autophosphorylation was minimized. These results
 suggest that the role of DNA-PK in resolving coding end hairpins is
 likely to be enzymatic rather than structural, expand understanding of
 how DNA-PK binding to structured DNA relates to enzyme activity, and
 suggest a mechanism for autoregulatory control of its kinase activity
 in the cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Syk and ZAP-70 nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs)
 are essential elements in several cascades coupling immune receptors
 to intracellular responses. The critical role of these kinases in
 promoting the propagation of intracellular signaling requires a tight
 regulation of their activity, thus the existence of a negative feedback
 loop regulating their expression can be hypothesized. Herein, we have
 investigated whether ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis could be a
 mechanism responsible for controlling the fate of Syk and ZAP-70 after
 their immunoreceptor-induced activation. We found that both Syk and
 ZAP-70 become ubiquitinated in response to aggregation of the low
 affinity Fc receptor for IgG (CD16) on human natural killer cells. We
 confirmed the identity of the major in vivo
 ubiquitinated kinase species by performing an in vitro
 ubiquitination assay. In addition, we found that after CD16
 stimulation, ubiquitinated forms of Syk and ZAP-70 associate with the
 receptor complex. After CD16 engagement, we also observed a decrease in
 the stability of Syk and ZAP-70 PTKs that is counteracted by
 pretreatment with either proteasome or lysosomal inhibitors. Moreover,
 in the presence of the proteasome inhibitor, epoxomicin, we observed an
 accumulation of ubiquitinated forms of both kinases. Our findings
 provide evidence of ligand-induced ubiquitination of nonreceptor PTKs
 belonging to the Syk family and propose the ubiquitin-dependent
 proteasome-mediated degradation pathway as a mechanism for attenuating
 the propagation of intracellular signaling initiated by immune receptor
 engagement.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Upon depolarization positive charges contained in the transmembrane
 segment S4 of voltage-dependent channels are displaced from the
 cytoplasmic to the external milieu. This charge movement leads to
 channel opening. In Shaker K+ channels four
 positively charged arginines in the S4 domain are transferred from the
 internal to the external side of the channel during activation. The
 distance traveled by the S4 segment during activation is unknown, but
 large movements should be constrained by the S3–S4 linker.
 Constructing deletion mutants, we show that the activation time
 constant and the midpoint of the voltage activation curve of the
 Shaker K+ channel macroscopic currents
 becomes a periodic function of the S3–S4 linker length for linkers
 shorter than 7 aa residues. The periodicity is that typical of
 α-helices. Moreover, a linker containing only 3 aa is enough to
 recover the wild-type phenotype. The deletion method revealed the
 importance of the S3–S4 linker in determining the channel gating
 kinetics and indicated that the α-helical nature of S4 extends toward
 its N terminus. These results support the notion that a small
 displacement of the S4 segment suffices to displace the four gating
 charges involved in channel opening.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aquaporins are membrane channels selectively permeated by
 water or water plus glycerol. Conflicting reports have described ion
 conductance associated with some water channels, raising the question
 of whether ion conductance is a general property of the aquaporin
 family. To clarify this question, a defined system was developed to
 simultaneously measure water permeability and ion conductance. The
 Escherichia coli water channel aquaporin-Z (AqpZ) was
 studied, because it is a highly stable tetramer. Planar lipid bilayers
 were formed from unilamellar vesicles containing purified AqpZ. The
 hydraulic conductivity of bilayers made from the total extract of
 E. coli lipids increased 3-fold if reconstituted with
 AqpZ, but electric conductance was unchanged. No channel activity was
 detected under voltage-clamp conditions, indicating that less than one
 in 109 transport events is electrogenic. Microelectrode
 measurements were simultaneously undertaken adjacent to the membrane.
 Changes in sodium concentration profiles accompanying transmembrane
 water flow permitted calculation of the activation energies: 14
 kcal/mol for protein-free lipid bilayers and 4 kcal/mol for lipid
 bilayers containing AqpZ. Neither the water permeability nor the
 electric conductivity exhibited voltage dependence. This sensitive
 system demonstrated that AqpZ is permeated by water but not charged
 ions and should permit direct analyses of putative electrogenic
 properties of other aquaporins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α)1 is a global
 transcriptional regulator of the hypoxic response. Under normoxic
 conditions, HIF-1α is recognized by the von Hippel-Lindau
 tumor-suppressor protein (VHL), a component of an E3 ubiquitin ligase
 complex. This interaction thereby promotes the rapid degradation of
 HIF-1α. Under hypoxic conditions, HIF-1α is stabilized. We have
 previously shown that VHL binds in a hypoxia-sensitive manner to a
 27-aa segment of HIF-1α, and that this regulation depends on a
 posttranslational modification of HIF-1α. Through a combination of
 in vivo coimmunoprecipitation assays using VHL and a
 panel of point mutants of HIF-1α in this region, as well as MS and
 in vitro binding assays, we now provide evidence that
 this modification, which occurs under normoxic conditions, is
 hydroxylation of Pro-564 of HIF-1α. The data furthermore show that
 this proline hydroxylation is the primary regulator of VHL binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH I:
 pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-NH2) stimulates
 pituitary gonadotropin secretion, which in turn stimulates the gonads.
 Whereas a hypothalamic form of GnRH of variable structure (designated
 type I) had been shown to regulate reproduction through a cognate type
 I receptor, it has recently become evident that most vertebrates have
 one or two other forms of GnRH. One of these, designated type II GnRH
 (GnRH II: pGlu-His-Ser-His-Gly-Trp-Tyr-Pro-Gly-NH2), is
 conserved from fish to man and is widely distributed in the brain,
 suggesting important neuromodulatory functions such as regulating
 K+ channels and stimulating sexual arousal. We now report
 the cloning of a type II GnRH receptor from marmoset cDNA. The receptor
 has only 41% identity with the type I receptor and, unlike the type I
 receptor, has a carboxyl-terminal tail. The receptor is highly
 selective for GnRH II. As with the type I receptor, it couples to
 Gαq/11 and also activates extracellular
 signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) but differs in activating p38
 mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase. The type II receptor is more
 widely distributed than the type I receptor and is expressed throughout
 the brain, including areas associated with sexual arousal, and in
 diverse non-neural and reproductive tissues, suggesting a variety of
 functions. Surprisingly, the type II receptor is expressed in the
 majority of gonadotropes. The presence of two GnRH receptors in
 gonadotropes, together with the differences in their signaling,
 suggests different roles in gonadotrope functioning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Redistribution of specialized molecules in migrating cells
 develops asymmetry between two opposite cell poles, the leading edge
 and the uropod. We show that acquisition of a motile phenotype in T
 lymphocytes results in the asymmetric redistribution of ganglioside
 GM3- and GM1-enriched raft domains to the leading edge and to the
 uropod, respectively. This segregation to each cell pole parallels the
 specific redistribution of membrane proteins associated to each raft
 subfraction. Our data suggest that raft partitioning is a major
 determinant for protein redistribution in polarized T cells, as ectopic
 expression of raft-associated proteins results in their asymmetric
 redistribution, whereas non-raft-partitioned mutants of these proteins
 are distributed homogeneously in the polarized cell membrane. Both
 acquisition of a migratory phenotype and SDF-1α-induced chemotaxis
 are cholesterol depletion-sensitive. Finally, GM3 and GM1 raft
 redistribution requires an intact actin cytoskeleton, but is
 insensitive to microtubule disruption. We propose that membrane protein
 segregation not only between raft and nonraft domains but also between
 distinct raft subdomains may be an organizational principle that
 mediates redistribution of specialized molecules needed for T cell
 migration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The yeast exocyst complex (also called Sec6/8 complex in higher
 eukaryotes) is a multiprotein complex essential for targeting exocytic
 vesicles to specific docking sites on the plasma membrane. It is
 composed of eight proteins (Sec3, -5, -6, -8, -10, and -15, and Exo70
 and -84), with molecular weights ranging from 70 to 144 kDa. Mammalian
 orthologues for seven of these proteins have been described and here we
 report the cloning and initial characterization of the remaining
 subunit, Sec3. Human Sec3 (hSec3) shares 17% sequence identity with
 yeast Sec3p, interacts in the two-hybrid system with other subunits of
 the complex (Sec5 and Sec8), and is expressed in almost all tissues
 tested. In yeast, Sec3p has been proposed to be a spatial landmark for
 polarized secretion (1), and its localization depends on its
 interaction with Rho1p (2). We demonstrate here that hSec3 lacks the
 potential Rho1-binding site and GFP-fusions of hSec3 are cytosolic.
 Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fusions of nearly every subunit of the
 mammalian Sec6/8 complex were expressed in Madin–Darby canine kidney
 (MDCK) cells, but they failed to assemble into a complex with
 endogenous proteins and localized in the cytosol. Of the
 subunits tested, only GFP-Exo70 localized to lateral membrane sites of
 cell–cell contact when expressed in MDCK cells. Cells overexpressing
 GFP-Exo70 fail to form a tight monolayer, suggesting the Exo70
 targeting interaction is critical for normal development of polarized
 epithelial cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Establishment of cell lines from primary mouse embryo fibroblasts
 depends on loss of either the Arf tumor suppressor or
 its downstream target, the p53 transcription factor. Mouse
 p19Arf is encoded by the Ink4a-Arf locus,
 which also specifies a second tumor suppressor protein, the cyclin
 D-dependent kinase inhibitor p16Ink4a. We surveyed bone
 marrow-derived cells from wild-type, Ink4a-Arf-null, or
 Arf-null mice for their ability to bypass senescence
 during continuous passage in culture. Unlike preB cells from wild-type
 mice, those from mice lacking Arf alone could be
 propagated indefinitely when placed onto stromal feeder layers
 engineered to produce IL-7. The preB cell lines remained diploid and
 IL-7-dependent and continued to express elevated levels of
 p16Ink4a. By contrast, Arf-null bone
 marrow-derived macrophages that depend on colony-stimulating factor-1
 for proliferation and survival in culture initially grew at a slow rate
 but gave rise to rapidly and continuously growing, but still growth
 factor-dependent, variants that ceased to express p16Ink4a.
 Wild-type bone marrow-derived macrophages initially expressed both
 p16Ink4a and p19Arf but exhibited an extended
 life span when p16Ink4a expression was extinguished. In all
 cases, gene silencing was accompanied by methylation of the
 Ink4a promoter. Therefore, whereas Arf
 loss alone appears to be the major determinant of establishment of
 murine fibroblast and preB cell lines in culture, p16Ink4a
 provides an effective barrier to immortalization of bone marrow-derived
 macrophages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Growth of the yeast vacuolar protein-sorting mutant
 vps5Δ affected in the endosome-to-Golgi retromer
 complex was more sensitive to Mg2+-limiting conditions than
 was the growth of the wild-type (WT) strain. This sensitivity was
 enhanced at acidic pH. The vps5Δ strain was also
 sensitive to Al3+, known to inhibit Mg2+ uptake
 in yeast cells. In contrast, it was found to be resistant to
 Ni2+ and Co2+, two cytotoxic analogs of
 Mg2+. Resistance to Ni2+ did not seem to result
 from the alteration of plasma-membrane transport properties because
 mutant and WT cells displayed similar Ni2+ uptake. After
 plasma-membrane permeabilization, intracellular Ni2+ uptake
 in vps5Δ cells was 3-fold higher than in WT cells,
 which is consistent with the implication of the vacuole in the observed
 phenotypes. In reconstituted vacuolar vesicles prepared from
 vps5Δ, the rates of H+ exchange with
 Ni2+, Co2+, and Mg2+ were increased
 (relative to WT) by 170%, 130%, and 50%, respectively. The rates of
 H+ exchange with Ca2+, Cd2+, and
 K+ were similar in both strains, as were α-mannosidase
 and H+-ATPase activities, and SDS/PAGE patterns of
 vacuolar proteins. Among 14 other vacuolar protein-sorting mutants
 tested, only the 8 mutants affected in the recycling of trans-Golgi
 network membrane proteins shared the same Ni2+ resistance
 phenotype as vps5Δ. It is proposed that a trans-Golgi
 network Mg2+/H+ exchanger, mislocalized to
 vps5Δ vacuole, could be responsible for the phenotypes
 observed in vivo and in vitro.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cytokines often deliver simultaneous, yet distinct, cell growth and
 cell survival signals. The 70-kDa ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K)
 is known to regulate cell growth by inducing protein synthesis
 components. We purified membrane-based p70S6K as a kinase responsible
 for site-specific phosphorylation of BAD, which inactivates this
 proapoptotic molecule. Rapamycin inhibited mitochondrial-based
 p70S6K, which prevented phosphorylation of Ser-136 on BAD and blocked
 cell survival induced by insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1).
 Moreover, IGF-1-induced phosphorylation of BAD Ser-136 was abolished in
 p70S6K-deficient cells. Thus, p70S6K is itself a dual pathway kinase,
 signaling cell survival as well as growth through differential
 substrates which include mitochondrial BAD and the ribosomal subunit
 S6, respectively.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The p33ING1 protein is a regulator of cell cycle, senescence, and
 apoptosis. Three alternatively spliced transcripts of
 p33ING1 encode p47ING1a, p33ING1b, and p24ING1c. We
 cloned an additional ING family member,
 p33ING2/ING1L. Unlike p33ING1b, p33ING2
 is induced by the DNA-damaging agents etoposide and
 neocarzinostatin. p33ING1b and p33ING2 negatively regulate cell
 growth and survival in a p53-dependent manner through induction of
 G1-phase cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. p33ING2
 strongly enhances the transcriptional-transactivation activity of p53.
 Furthermore, p33ING2 expression increases the acetylation of p53 at
 Lys-382. Taken together, p33ING2 is a DNA
 damage-inducible gene that negatively regulates cell proliferation
 through activation of p53 by enhancing its acetylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IFN-τ is a secretory product of trophectoderm of cattle, sheep,
 and their relatives and is expressed for a few days in early pregnancy
 after the blastocyst first forms. It serves to alert the mother that
 she is pregnant. A delayed or less than robust IFN-τ signal is a
 likely cause of embryonic loss. Here we have determined whether
 blastocyst production of IFN-τ, which is encoded by a cluster of
 genes on chromosome 9, differs between the sexes in cattle, as assessed
 by culture of in vitro-derived embryos on two different
 media, one complex (tissue culture medium 199 supplemented with serum)
 with coculture support, the other relatively simple (synthetic
 oviductal fluid plus albumin). With both media, female blastocysts
 produced approximately double the amount of IFN-τ as males,
 regardless of such variables as oocyte batch, blastocyst quality,
 hatching, and length of time in culture. However, in either tissue
 culture medium 199, which contains 5.5 mM d-glucose, or in
 synthetic oviductal fluid, in the presence but not in the absence of
 added glucose, significantly fewer female than male embryos were able
 to progress from the morula/early blastocyst stage to more advanced
 stages of development. It is possible that the differences between male
 and female embryos both in their production of IFN-τ and in their
 ability to progress in development in glucose-rich media are
 manifestations of phenomena that occur in vivo and
 provide plasticity in embryo selection during early pregnancy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The forebrain overgrowth mutation (fog) was
 originally described as a spontaneous autosomal recessive mutation
 mapping to mouse chromosome 10 that produces forebrain defects, facial
 defects, and spina bifida. Although the fog mutant has
 been characterized and available to investigators for several years,
 the underlying mutation causing the pathology has not been known.
 Because of its phenotypic resemblance to apoptotic protease
 activating factor-1 (Apaf-1) knockout mice, we have investigated the
 possibility that the fog mutation is in the
 Apaf-1 gene. Allelic complementation, Western blot
 analysis, and caspase activation assays indicate that
 fog mutant mice lack Apaf-1 activity. Northern blot and
 reverse transcription-PCR analysis show that Apaf-1 mRNA
 is aberrantly processed, resulting in greatly reduced expression levels
 of normal Apaf-1 mRNA. These findings are strongly
 suggestive of the fog mutation being a hypomorphic
 Apaf-1 defect and implicate neural progenitor cell death
 in the pathogenesis of spina bifida—a common human congenital
 malformation. Because a complete deficiency in Apaf-1
 usually results in perinatal lethality and
 fog/fog mice more readily survive into
 adulthood, these mutants serve as a valuable model with which
 apoptotic cell death can be studied in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe lens defects in heterozygous small eye mice, and
 autonomous deficiencies of Pax6+/− cells in
 the developing lens of Pax6+/+ ↔
 Pax6+/− chimeras. Two separate defects of
 the lens were identified by analyzing the distribution of heterozygous
 cells in chimeras: Pax6+/− cells are less
 readily incorporated into the lens placode than wild type, and those
 that are incorporated into the lens are not maintained efficiently in
 the proliferating lens epithelium. The lens of chimeric eyes is,
 therefore, predominantly wild type from embryonic day 16.5 onwards,
 whereas heterozygous cells contribute normally to all other eye
 tissues. Eye size and defects of the iris and cornea are corrected in
 fetal and adult chimeras with up to 80% mutant cells. Therefore, these
 aspects of the phenotype may be secondary consequences of primary
 defects in the lens, which has clinical relevance for the human
 aniridia (PAX6+/−) phenotype.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe lacerata (lcr) mutants of
 Arabidopsis, which display various developmental
 abnormalities, including postgenital organ fusions, and report cloning
 of the LCR gene by using the maize transposon
 Enhancer/Suppressor-mutator
 (En/Spm). The pleiotropic mutant
 phenotype could be rescued by genetic complementation of
 lcr mutants with the wild-type LCR gene.
 The LCR gene encodes a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase,
 CYP86A8, which catalyzes ω-hydroxylation of fatty acids ranging from
 C12 to C18:1, as demonstrated by expression of the gene in yeast.
 Although palmitic and oleic acids were efficient substrates for LCR,
 9,10-epoxystearate was not metabolized. Taken together with previous
 studies, our findings indicate that LCR-dependent
 ω-hydroxylation of fatty acids could be implicated in the
 biosynthesis of cutin in the epidermis and in preventing postgenital
 organ fusions. Strikingly, the same pathway seems to control trichome
 differentiation, the establishment of apical dominance, and senescence
 in plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bat predation on birds is a very rare phenomenon in nature. Most
 documented reports of bird-eating bats refer to tropical bats that
 occasionally capture resting birds. Millions of small birds concentrate
 and cross over the world's temperate regions during migration, mainly
 at night, but no nocturnal predators are known to benefit from this
 enormous food resource. An analysis of 14,000 fecal pellets of the
 greater noctule bat (Nyctalus lasiopterus) reveals that
 this species captures and eats large numbers of migrating passerines,
 making it the only bat species so far known that regularly preys on
 birds. The echolocation characteristics and wing morphology of this
 species strongly suggest that it captures birds in flight.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The complex collective behavior seen in many insect societies
 strongly suggests that a minimum number of workers are required for
 these societies to function effectively. Here we investigated the
 transition between disordered and ordered foraging in the Pharaoh's
 ant. We show that small colonies forage in a disorganized manner, with
 a transition to organized pheromone-based foraging in larger colonies.
 We also show that when food sources are difficult to locate through
 independent searching, this transition is first-order and exhibits
 hysteresis, comparable to a first-order phase transition found in many
 physical systems. To our knowledge, this is the first experimental
 evidence of a behavioral phase transition between a maladaptive
 (disorganized) and an adaptive (organized) state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We studied the evolutionary relationships among basal metazoan
 lineages by using complete large subunit (LSU) and small subunit (SSU)
 ribosomal RNA sequences for 23 taxa. After identifying competing
 hypotheses, we performed maximum likelihood searches for trees
 conforming to each hypothesis. Kishino–Hasegawa tests were used to
 determine whether the data (LSU, SSU, and combined) reject any of the
 competing hypotheses. We also conducted unconstrained tree searches,
 compared the resulting topologies, and calculated bootstrap indices.
 Shimodaira–Hasegawa tests were applied to determine whether the data
 reject any of the topologies resulting from the constrained and
 unconstrained tree searches. LSU, SSU, and the combined data strongly
 contradict two assertions pertaining to sponge phylogeny. Hexactinellid
 sponges are not likely to be the basal lineage of a monophyletic
 Porifera or the sister group to all other animals. Instead,
 Hexactinellida and Demospongia form a well-supported clade of siliceous
 sponges, Silicea. It remains unclear, on the basis of these data alone,
 whether the calcarean sponges are more closely related to Silicea or to
 nonsponge animals. The SSU and combined data reject the hypothesis that
 Bilateria is more closely related to Ctenophora than it is to Cnidaria,
 whereas LSU data alone do not refute either hypothesis. LSU and SSU
 data agree in supporting the monophyly of Bilateria, Cnidaria,
 Ctenophora, and Metazoa. LSU sequence data reveal phylogenetic
 structure in a data set with limited taxon sampling. Continued
 accumulation of LSU sequences should increase our understanding of
 animal phylogeny.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mechanisms and signals that regulate transcriptional coactivators
 are still largely unknown. Here we provide genetic evidence for a
 repressor that interacts with and regulates the nuclear receptor
 coactivator PGC-1. Association with the repressor requires a PGC-1
 protein interface that is similar to the one used by nuclear receptors.
 Removal of the repressor enhances PGC-1 coactivation of steroid hormone
 responses. We also provide evidence that interaction of the repressor
 with PGC-1 is regulated by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)
 signaling. Activation of the MAPK p38 enhances the activity of
 wild-type PGC-1 but not of a PGC-1 variant that no longer interacts
 with the repressor. Finally, p38 activation enhances steroid hormone
 response in a PGC-1-dependent manner. Our data suggest a model where
 the repressor and nuclear receptors compete for recruiting PGC-1 to an
 inactive and active state, respectively. Extracellular signals such as
 nuclear receptor ligands or activators of the MAPK p38 can shift the
 equilibrium between the two states.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Loss of chromosome 18q21 is well documented in colorectal cancer,
 and it has been suggested that this loss targets the
 DCC, DPC4/SMAD4, and
 SMAD2 genes. Recently, the importance of
 SMAD4, a downstream regulator in the TGF-β signaling
 pathway, in colorectal cancer has been highlighted, although the
 frequency of SMAD4 mutations appears much lower than
 that of 18q21 loss. We set out to investigate allele loss, mutations,
 protein expression, and cytogenetics of chromosome 18 copy number in a
 collection of 44 colorectal cancer cell lines of known status with
 respect to microsatellite instability (MSI). Fourteen of thirty-two
 MSI− lines showed loss of SMAD4 protein expression;
 usually, one allele was lost and the other was mutated in one of a
 number of ways, including deletions of various sizes, splice site
 changes, and missense and nonsense point mutations (although no
 frameshifts). Of the 18 MSI− cancers with retained SMAD4
 expression, four harbored missense mutations in the 3′ part of the gene
 and showed allele loss. The remaining 14 MSI− lines had no
 detectable SMAD4 mutation, but all showed allele loss at
 SMAD4 and/or DCC. SMAD4
 mutations can therefore account for about 50–60% of the 18q21 allele
 loss in colorectal cancer. No MSI+ cancer showed loss of
 SMAD4 protein or SMAD4 mutation, and very few had
 allelic loss at SMAD4 or DCC, although
 many of these MSI+ lines did carry TGFBIIR
 changes. Although SMAD4 mutations have been associated
 with late-stage or metastatic disease, our combined molecular and
 cytogenetic data best fit a model in which SMAD4
 mutations occur before colorectal cancers become aneuploid/polyploid,
 but after the MSI+ and MSI− pathways diverge.
 Thus, MSI+ cancers may diverge first, followed by
 CIN+ (chromosomal instability) cancers, leaving other
 cancers to follow a CIN−MSI− pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Drosophila BTB domain containing gene
 mod(mdg4) produces a large number of protein isoforms
 combining a common N-terminal region of 402 aa with different C
 termini. We have deduced the genomic structure of this complex locus
 and found that at least seven of the mod(mdg4) isoforms
 are encoded on both of its antiparallel DNA strands, suggesting the
 generation of mature mRNAs by trans-splicing. In transgenic assays, we
 demonstrate the ability of Drosophila to produce
 mod(mdg4) mRNAs by trans-splicing of pre-mRNAs generated
 from transgenes inserted at distant chromosomal positions. Furthermore,
 evidence is presented for occurring of trans-splicing of
 mod(mdg4)-specific exons encoded by the parallel DNA
 strand. The mod(mdg4) locus represents a new type of
 comlpex gene structure in which genetic complexity is resolved by
 extensive trans-splicing, giving important implications for genome
 sequencing projects. Demonstration of naturally occurring
 trans-splicing in the model organism Drosophila opens
 new experimental approaches toward an analysis of the underlying
 mechanisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Deacetylation of the N-terminal tails of core histones plays a
 crucial role in gene silencing. Rpd3 and
 Hda1 represent two major types of genes encoding
 trichostatin A-sensitive histone deacetylases. Although they have been
 widely found, their cellular and developmental roles remain to be
 elucidated in metazoa. We show that Drosophila Hdac1, an
 Rpd3-type gene, interacts cooperatively with Polycomb
 group repressors in silencing the homeotic genes that are essential for
 axial patterning of body segments. The biochemical copurification and
 cytological colocalization of HDAC1 and Polycomb group repressors
 strongly suggest that HDAC1 is a component of the silencing complex for
 chromatin modification on specific regulatory regions of homeotic
 genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The thiCOGE genes of Rhizobium etli
 code for enzymes involved in thiamin biosynthesis. These genes are
 transcribed with a 211-base untranslated leader that contains the
 thi box, a 38-base sequence highly conserved in the 5′
 regions of thiamin biosynthetic and transport genes of Gram-positive
 and Gram-negative organisms. A deletion analysis of
 thiC-lacZ fusions revealed an unexpected relationship
 between the degree of repression shown by the deleted derivatives and
 the length of the thiC sequences present in the
 transcript. Three regions were found to be important for regulation:
 (i) the thi box sequence, which is
 absolutely necessary for high-level expression of thiC;
 (ii) the region immediately upstream to the translation
 start codon of thiC, which can be folded into a
 stem-loop structure that would mask the Shine-Dalgarno sequence; and
 (iii) the proximal part of the coding region of
 thiC, which was shown to contain a putative
 Rho-independent terminator. A comparative phylogenetic analysis
 revealed a possible folding of the thi box sequence into
 a hairpin structure composed of a hairpin loop, two helixes, and an
 interior loop. Our results show that thiamin regulation of gene
 expression involves a complex posttranscriptional mechanism and that
 the thi box RNA structure is indispensable for
 thiCOGE expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are double-stranded RNAs of
 ≈21–25 nucleotides that have been shown to function as key
 intermediaries in triggering sequence-specific RNA degradation during
 posttranscriptional gene silencing in plants and RNA interference in
 invertebrates. siRNAs have a characteristic structure, with
 5′-phosphate/3′-hydroxyl ends and a 2-base 3′ overhang on each strand
 of the duplex. In this study, we present data that synthetic siRNAs can
 induce gene-specific inhibition of expression in
 Caenorhabditis elegans and in cell lines
 from humans and mice. In each case, the interference by siRNAs was
 superior to the inhibition of gene expression mediated by
 single-stranded antisense oligonucleotides. The siRNAs seem to avoid
 the well documented nonspecific effects triggered by longer
 double-stranded RNAs in mammalian cells. These observations may open a
 path toward the use of siRNAs as a reverse genetic and therapeutic tool
 in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
For the last 20 years, fragment assembly in DNA sequencing
 followed the “overlap–layout–consensus” paradigm that is used
 in all currently available assembly tools. Although this approach
 proved useful in assembling clones, it faces difficulties in genomic
 shotgun assembly. We abandon the classical
 “overlap–layout–consensus” approach in favor of a new
 euler algorithm that, for the first time, resolves the
 20-year-old “repeat problem” in fragment assembly. Our main
 result is the reduction of the fragment assembly to a variation of the
 classical Eulerian path problem that allows one to generate accurate
 solutions of large-scale sequencing problems. euler, in
 contrast to the celera assembler, does not mask such
 repeats but uses them instead as a powerful fragment assembly tool.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To better understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie the
 tumorigenesis and progression of clear cell renal cell carcinoma
 (ccRCC), we studied the gene expression profiles of 29 ccRCC tumors
 obtained from patients with diverse clinical outcomes by using 21,632
 cDNA microarrays. We identified gene expression alterations that were
 both common to most of the ccRCC studied and unique to clinical
 subsets. There was a significant distinction in gene expression profile
 between patients with a relatively nonaggressive form of the disease
 [100% survival after 5 years with the majority (15/17 or 88%)
 having no clinical evidence of metastasis] versus patients with a
 relatively aggressive form of the disease (average survival time 25.4
 months with a 0% 5-year survival rate). Approximately 40 genes most
 accurately make this distinction, some of which have previously been
 implicated in tumorigenesis and metastasis. To test the robustness and
 potential clinical usefulness of this molecular distinction, we
 simulated its use as a prognostic tool in the clinical setting. In 96%
 of the ccRCC cases tested, the prediction was compatible with the
 clinical outcome, exceeding the accuracy of prediction by staging.
 These results suggest that two molecularly distinct forms of ccRCC
 exist and that the integration of expression profile data with clinical
 parameters could serve to enhance the diagnosis and prognosis of ccRCC.
 Moreover, the identified genes provide insight into the molecular
 mechanisms of aggressive ccRCC and suggest intervention strategies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previously, we reported evidence suggesting that
 Saccharomyces cerevisiae MutLα, composed of Mlh1p and
 Pms1p, was a functional member of the gyrase b/Hsp90/MutL (GHL)
 dimeric ATPase superfamily characterized by highly conserved ATPase
 domains. Similar to other GHL ATPases, these putative ATPase domains of
 MutLα may be important for the recruitment and/or activation of
 downstream effectors. One downstream effector candidate is Exo1p, a
 5′-3′ double stranded DNA exonuclease that has previously been
 implicated in DNA mismatch repair (MMR). Here we report yeast
 two-hybrid results suggesting that Exo1p can interact physically with
 MutLα through the Mlh1p subunit. We also report epistasis analysis
 involving MutLα ATPase mutations combined with
 exo1Δ. One interpretation of our genetic results is
 that MutLα ATPase domains function to direct Exo1p and other
 functionally redundant exonucleases during MMR. Finally, our results
 show that much of the increase in spontaneous mutation observed in an
 exo1Δ strain is REV3-dependent, in turn
 suggesting that Exo1p is also involved in one or more MMR-independent
 mutation avoidance pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Type I DNA topoisomerases are ubiquitous enzymes involved in
 many aspects of DNA metabolism. Escherichia coli
 possesses two type I topoisomerase activities, DNA topoisomerase I
 (Topo I) and III (Topo III). The gene encoding Topo III
 (topB) can be deleted without affecting cell viability.
 Cells possessing a deletion of the gene encoding Topo I
 (topA) are only viable in the presence of an additional
 compensatory mutation. In the presence of compensatory mutations, Topo
 I deletion strains grow normally; however, if Topo III activity is
 repressed in these cells, they filament extensively and possess an
 abnormal nucleoid structure. These defects can be suppressed by the
 deletion of the recA gene, suggesting that these enzymes
 may be involved in RecA-mediated recombination and may specifically
 resolve recombination intermediates before partitioning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Investigation of human genome sequences with a consensus sequence
 derived from receptors for the Fc region of Igs (FcR) led to the
 identification of a subfamily of five Ig superfamily members that we
 term the Fc receptor homologs (FcRHs). The closely linked
 FcRH genes are located in a chromosome 1q21 region in
 the midst of previously recognized FcR genes. This
 report focuses on the FcRH1, FcRH2, and
 FcRH3 members of this gene family. Their cDNAs encode
 type I transmembrane glycoproteins with 3–6 Ig-like extracellular
 domains and cytoplasmic domains containing consensus immunoreceptor
 tyrosine-based activating and/or inhibitory signaling motifs. The
 five FcRH genes are structurally related, and their
 protein products share 28–60% extracellular identity with each other.
 They also share 15–31% identity with their closest FcR relatives. The
 FcRH genes are expressed primarily, although not
 exclusively, by mature B lineage cells. Their conserved structural
 features, patterns of cellular expression, and the inhibitory and
 activating signaling potential of their transmembrane protein products
 suggest that the members of this FcRH multigene family
 may serve important regulatory roles in normal and neoplastic B cell
 development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Anti-Porimin (Pro-oncosis
 receptor inducing membrane
 injury) mAb mediates oncosis-like cell death in Jurkat
 cells. Porimin cDNA was isolated from a Jurkat cell cDNA library by COS
 cell-expression cloning. The 3,337-bp cDNA has an ORF of 567 bp,
 encoding a type I transmembrane protein of 189 amino acids. The
 extracellular domain of Porimin contains many O-linked
 and seven N-linked glycosylation sites that define it as
 a new member of the mucin family. COS7 and 293 cells transiently
 transfected with Porimin cDNA were specifically recognized by
 anti-Porimin Ab in cell staining and immunoblotting experiments. When
 expressed in Jurkat cells, a His-tagged Porimin cDNA construct resulted
 in the generation of a specific 110-kDa-size protein that matched the
 molecular mass of the endogenous Porimin protein.
 Crosslinking of the Porimin receptor expressed on COS7 transfectants
 resulted in the loss of cell membrane integrity and cell death as
 measured by the leakage of intracellular lactate dehydrogenase. Both
 COS7 and 293 cells expressing transfected Porimin at a relatively high
 level lost their ability to adhere to culture dishes, suggesting a role
 for Porimin in cell adhesion. The Porimin gene was
 mapped to human chromosome 11q22.1 and is composed of four exons
 spanning 133 kb of genomic DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Juvenile nephronophthisis type 1 is caused by mutations of
 NPHP1, the gene encoding for nephrocystin. The function
 of nephrocystin is presently unknown, but the presence of a Src
 homology 3 domain and its recently described interaction with
 p130Cas suggest that nephrocystin is part of the focal
 adhesion signaling complex. We generated a nephrocystin-specific
 antiserum and analyzed the interaction of native nephrocystin with
 endogenous proteins. Immunoprecipitation of nephrocystin
 revealed that nephrocystin forms protein complexes with
 p130Cas, proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2), and tensin,
 indicating that these proteins participate in a common signaling
 pathway. Expression of nephrocystin resulted in phosphorylation of Pyk2
 on tyrosine 402 as well as activation of downstream mitogen-activated
 protein kinases, such as ERK1 and ERK2. Our findings suggest that
 nephrocystin helps to recruit Pyk2 to cell matrix adhesions, thereby
 initiating phosphorylation of Pyk2 and Pyk2-dependent signaling. A lack
 of functional nephrocystin may compromise Pyk2 signaling in a subset of
 renal epithelial cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epidemiological studies have suggested an association between
 exposure to solar UV radiation and the incidence of lymphoid
 malignancies, which has increased substantially worldwide during the
 last two decades. Findings from animal studies have raised the question
 of whether UV radiation might influence the development of lymphoid
 malignancies by means of its immunosuppressive effect. In this study,
 we examined the effect of UV irradiation on the development of lymphoid
 malignancies in mice with no or only one functional copy of
 p53. Mice that lack both copies of p53
 spontaneously develop high frequency of lymphoid malignancies in the
 thymus and spleen. p53 heterozygous mice with only one
 copy of the wild-type allele also develop lymphoid malignancies, but
 with a much lower frequency and a long latent period. In our study
 using mice of the C57BL/6 background, only one of the unirradiated
 mice lacking one copy of p53
 (p53+/−) spontaneously developed a lymphoid
 tumor (6%), whereas 88% of UV-irradiated
 p53+/− mice developed lymphoid tumors in
 the spleen or liver. None of the control or UV-irradiated
 p53 wild-type mice developed lymphoid tumors during the
 60-week observation period. Both UV-irradiated and unirradiated mice
 lacking both copies of p53
 (p53−/−) rapidly developed thymic
 lymphomas and/or lymphoid tumors in spleen or liver. All of the
 lymphoid tumors tested were of T cell type. The immune responses of the
 mice to contact sensitization were identical and were suppressed to the
 same extent by UV irradiation regardless of the genotype. These results
 indicate that differences in immune reactivity do not account for the
 different effects of UV radiation on lymphoid malignancies and, in
 addition, that p53 is not required for generation of T cell-mediated
 immunity. Interestingly, whereas p53 mutations or loss
 of heterozygosity did not account for the accelerated development of
 lymphoid tumors in UV-irradiated p53+/−
 mice, deletions in the p16INK4a gene
 were quite common. These data provide the experimental evidence that UV
 irradiation induces lymphoid neoplasms in genetically susceptible mice
 and support the hypothesis that extensive sunlight exposure contributes
 to the induction of lymphoma in humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To identify molecular alterations implicated in the initiating
 steps of breast tumorogenesis, we compared the gene expression profiles
 of normal and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) mammary
 epithelial cells by using serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE).
 Through the pair-wise comparison of normal and DCIS SAGE libraries, we
 identified several differentially expressed genes. Here, we report the
 characterization of one of these genes, HIN-1 (high in normal-1). HIN-1
 expression is significantly down regulated in 94% of human breast
 carcinomas and in 95% of preinvasive lesions, such as ductal and
 lobular carcinoma in situ. This decrease in HIN-1
 expression is accompanied by hypermethylation of its promoter in the
 majority of breast cancer cell lines (>90%) and primary tumors
 (74%). HIN-1 is a putative cytokine with no significant homology to
 known proteins. Reintroduction of HIN-1 into breast cancer cells
 inhibits cell growth. These results indicate that HIN-1 is a candidate
 tumor suppressor gene that is inactivated at high frequency in the
 earliest stages of breast tumorogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We analyzed the der(11) and der(4) genomic breakpoint junctions of
 a t(4;11) in the leukemia of a patient previously administered
 etoposide and dactinomycin by molecular and biochemical approaches to
 gain insights about the translocation mechanism and the relevant drug
 exposure. The genomic breakpoint junctions were amplified by PCR.
 Cleavage of DNA substrates containing the normal homologues of the
 MLL and AF-4 translocation breakpoints
 was examined in vitro upon incubation with human DNA
 topoisomerase IIα and etoposide, etoposide catechol, etoposide
 quinone, or dactinomycin. The der(11) and der(4) genomic breakpoint
 junctions both involved MLL intron 6 and
 AF-4 intron 3. Recombination was precise at the sequence
 level except for the overall gain of a single templated nucleotide. The
 translocation breakpoints in MLL and AF-4
 were DNA topoisomerase II cleavage sites. Etoposide and its
 metabolites, but not dactinomycin, enhanced cleavage at these sites.
 Assuming that DNA topoisomerase II was the mediator of the breakage,
 processing of the staggered nicks induced by DNA topoisomerase II,
 including exonucleolytic deletion and template-directed polymerization,
 would have been required before ligation of the ends to generate the
 observed genomic breakpoint junctions. These data are inconsistent with
 a translocation mechanism involving interchromosomal recombination by
 simple exchange of DNA topoisomerase II subunits and DNA-strand
 transfer; however, consistent with reciprocal DNA topoisomerase II
 cleavage events in MLL and AF-4 in which
 both breaks became stable, the DNA ends were processed and underwent
 ligation. Etoposide and/or its metabolites, but not dactinomycin,
 likely were the relevant exposures in this patient.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disease
 characterized by degeneration of the anterior horn cells of the spinal
 cord, leading to muscular paralysis with muscular atrophy. No effective
 treatment of this disorder is presently available. Studies of the
 correlation between disease severity and the amount of survival motor
 neuron (SMN) protein have shown an inverse relationship. We report that
 sodium butyrate effectively increases the amount of exon 7-containing
 SMN protein in SMA lymphoid cell lines by changing the alternative
 splicing pattern of exon 7 in the SMN2 gene. In
 vivo, sodium butyrate treatment of SMA-like mice resulted in
 increased expression of SMN protein in motor neurons of the spinal cord
 and resulted in significant improvement of SMA clinical symptoms. Oral
 administration of sodium butyrate to intercrosses of heterozygous
 pregnant knockout-transgenic SMA-like mice decreased the birth rate of
 severe types of SMA-like mice, and SMA symptoms were ameliorated for
 all three types of SMA-like mice. These results suggest that sodium
 butyrate may be an effective drug for the treatment of human SMA
 patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe imaging the luminance of green fluorescent protein
 (GFP)-expressing bacteria from outside intact infected animals. This
 simple, nonintrusive technique can show in great detail the
 spatial–temporal behavior of the infectious process. The bacteria,
 expressing the GFP, are sufficiently bright as to be clearly visible
 from outside the infected animal and recorded with simple equipment.
 Introduced bacteria were observed in several mouse organs including the
 peritoneal cavity, stomach, small intestine, and colon. Instantaneous
 real-time images of the infectious process were acquired by using a
 color charge-coupled device video camera by simply illuminating mice at
 490 nm. Most techniques for imaging the interior of intact animals may
 require the administration of exogenous substrates, anesthesia, or
 contrasting substances and require very long data collection times. In
 contrast, the whole-body fluorescence imaging described here is fast
 and requires no extraneous agents. The progress of Escherichia
 coli-GFP through the mouse gastrointestinal tract after gavage
 was followed in real-time by whole-body imaging. Bacteria, seen first
 in the stomach, migrated into the small intestine and subsequently into
 the colon, an observation confirmed by intravital direct imaging. An
 i.p. infection was established by i.p. injection of E.
 coli-GFP. The development of infection over 6 h and its
 regression after kanamycin treatment were visualized by whole-body
 imaging. This imaging technology affords a powerful approach to
 visualizing the infection process, determining the tissue specificity
 of infection, and the spatial migration of the infectious agents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides can selectively block
 disease-causing genes, and cancer genes have been chosen as potential
 targets for antisense drugs to treat cancer. However, nonspecific side
 effects have clouded the true antisense mechanism of action and
 hampered clinical development of antisense therapeutics. Using DNA
 microarrays, we have conducted a systematic characterization of gene
 expression in cells exposed to antisense, either exogenously or
 endogenously. Here, we show that in a sequence-specific
 manner, antisense targeted to protein kinase A RIα alters expression
 of the clusters of coordinately expressed genes at a specific stage of
 cell growth, differentiation, and activation. The genes that define the
 proliferation-transformation signature are down-regulated, whereas
 those that define the differentiation-reverse transformation signature
 are up-regulated in antisense-treated cancer cells and tumors, but not
 in host livers. In this differentiation signature, the genes showing
 the highest induction include genes for the G proteins Rap1 and Cdc42.
 The expression signature induced by the exogenously supplied antisense
 oligodeoxynucleotide overlaps strikingly with that induced by
 endogenous antisense gene overexpression. Defining
 antisense DNAs on the basis of their effects on global gene
 expression can lead to identification of clinically relevant
 antisense therapeutics and can identify which molecular and
 cellular events might be important in complex biological processes,
 such as cell growth and differentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The identification of circulating tumor antigens or their related
 autoantibodies provides a means for early cancer diagnosis as well as
 leads for therapy. The purpose of this study was to identify proteins
 that commonly induce a humoral response in lung cancer by using a
 proteomic approach and to investigate biological processes that may be
 associated with the development of autoantibodies. Aliquots of
 solubilized proteins from a lung adenocarcinoma cell line (A549) and
 from lung tumors were subjected to two-dimensional PAGE, followed by
 Western blot analysis in which individual sera were tested for primary
 antibodies. Sera from 54 newly diagnosed patients with lung cancer and
 60 patients with other cancers and from 61 noncancer controls were
 analyzed. Sera from 60% of patients with lung adenocarcinoma and 33%
 of patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma but none of the noncancer
 controls exhibited IgG-based reactivity against proteins identified as
 glycosylated annexins I and/or II. Immunohistochemical analysis
 showed that annexin I was expressed diffusely in neoplastic cells in
 lung tumor tissues, whereas annexin II was predominant at the cell
 surface. Interestingly, IL-6 levels were significantly higher in sera
 of antibody-positive lung cancer patients compared with
 antibody-negative patients and controls. We conclude that an immune
 response manifested by annexins I and II autoantibodies occurs commonly
 in lung cancer and is associated with high circulating levels of an
 inflammatory cytokine. The proteomic approach we have implemented has
 utility for the development of serum-based assays for cancer diagnosis
 as we report in this paper on the discovery of antiannexins I and/or
 II in sera from patients with lung cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The reaction of cardiac tissue to acute injury involves interacting
 cascades of cellular and molecular responses that encompass
 inflammation, hormonal signaling, extracellular matrix remodeling, and
 compensatory adaptation of myocytes. Myocardial regeneration is
 observed in amphibians, whereas scar formation characterizes cardiac
 ventricular wound healing in a variety of mammalian injury models. We
 have previously shown that the MRL mouse strain has an extraordinary
 capacity to heal surgical wounds, a complex trait that maps to at least
 seven genetic loci. Here, we extend these studies to cardiac wounds and
 demonstrate that a severe transmural, cryogenically induced infarction
 of the right ventricle heals extensively within 60 days, with the
 restoration of normal myocardium and function. Scarring is markedly
 reduced in MRL mice compared with C57BL/6 mice, consistent with both
 the reduced hydroxyproline levels seen after injury and an elevated
 cardiomyocyte mitotic index of 10–20% for the MRL compared with
 1–3% for the C57BL/6. The myocardial response to injury observed in
 these mice resembles the regenerative process seen in amphibians.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Prion diseases in humans and animals are invariably fatal. Prions
 are composed of a disease-causing isoform (PrPSc) of the
 normal host prion protein (PrPC) and replicate by
 stimulating the conversion of PrPC into nascent
 PrPSc. We report here that tricyclic derivatives of
 acridine and phenothiazine exhibit half-maximal inhibition of
 PrPSc formation at effective concentrations
 (EC50) between 0.3 μM and 3 μM in cultured cells
 chronically infected with prions. The EC50 for
 chlorpromazine was 3 μM, whereas quinacrine was 10 times more potent.
 A variety of 9-substituted, acridine-based analogues of quinacrine were
 synthesized, which demonstrated variable antiprion potencies similar to
 those of chlorpromazine and emphasized the importance of the side chain
 in mediating the inhibition of PrPSc formation. Thus, our
 studies show that tricyclic compounds with an aliphatic side chain at
 the middle ring moiety constitute a new class of antiprion reagents.
 Because quinacrine and chlorpromazine have been used in humans for many
 years as antimalarial and antipsychotic drugs, respectively, and are
 known to pass the blood–brain barrier, we suggest that they are
 immediate candidates for the treatment of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease
 and other prion diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The recently released Recommended Dietary Allowance of vitamin C
 for women, 75 mg daily, was based on data for men. We now report
 results of a depletion–repletion study with healthy young women
 hospitalized for 186 +/− 28 days, using vitamin C doses of 30–2,500
 mg daily. The relationship between dose and steady-state plasma
 concentration was sigmoidal. Only doses above 100 mg were beyond the
 linear portion of the curve. Plasma and circulating cells saturated at
 400 mg daily, with urinary elimination of higher doses. Biomarkers of
 endogenous oxidant stress, plasma and urine
 F2-isoprostanes, and urine levels of a major metabolite of
 F2-isoprostanes were unchanged by vitamin C at all doses,
 suggesting this vitamin does not alter endogenous lipid
 peroxidation in healthy young women. By using Food and Nutrition Board
 guidelines, the data indicate that the Recommended Dietary Allowance
 for young women should be increased to 90 mg daily.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a leading cause of chronic hepatitis,
 cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The absence of culture systems
 permissive for HCV replication has presented a major bottleneck to
 antiviral development. We sought to recapitulate the early steps in the
 life cycle of HCV by means of DNA-based expression of viral genomic
 sequences. Here we report expression of replicating HCV RNA by using a,
 to our knowledge, novel binary expression system in which cells were
 transfected with a T7 polymerase-driven full-length HCV cDNA plasmid
 containing a cis-acting hepatitis Δ ribozyme to
 control 3′ cleavage, and infected with vaccinia-T7 polymerase. HCV
 genomic and replicative strand synthesis, in addition to protein
 synthesis, was detectable and depended on full-length HCV sequences.
 Moreover, the system was capable of generating HCV RNA quasispecies,
 consistent with the action of the low-fidelity HCV NS5B RNA polymerase.
 IFN-α, but not ribavirin, directly inhibited the viral replicative
 cycle in these cells, identifying the virus itself and not solely the
 immune system as a direct target of IFN action. The availability of a
 cell-based test for viral replication will facilitate screening of
 inhibitory compounds, analysis of IFN-resistance mechanisms, and
 analysis of virus–host cell interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA microarrays constructed with full length ORFs from
 Shewanella oneidensis, MR-1, were hybridized with
 genomic DNA from nine other Shewanella species and
 Escherichia coli K-12. This approach enabled
 visualization of relationships between organisms by comparing
 individual ORF hybridizations to 164 genes and is further amenable to
 high-density high-throughput analyses of complete microbial genomes.
 Conserved genes (arcA and ATP synthase) were identified
 among all species investigated. The mtr operon, which is
 involved in iron reduction, was poorly conserved among other known
 metal-reducing Shewanella species. Results were most
 informative for closely related organisms with small subunit rRNA
 sequence similarities greater than 93% and gyrB
 sequence similarities greater than 80%. At this level of relatedness,
 the similarity between hybridization profiles was strongly correlated
 with sequence divergence in the gyrB gene. Results
 revealed that two strains of S. oneidensis (MR-1 and
 DLM7) were nearly identical, with only 3% of the ORFs hybridizing
 poorly, in contrast to hybridizations with Shewanella
 putrefaciens, formerly considered to be the same species as
 MR-1, in which 63% of the ORFs hybridized poorly (log ratios below
 −0.75). Genomic hybridizations showed that genes in operons had
 consistent levels of hybridization across an operon in comparison to a
 randomly sampled data set, suggesting that similar applications will be
 informative for identification of horizontally acquired genes. The
 full value of microbial genomic hybridizations lies in providing
 the ability to understand and display specific differences between
 closely related organisms providing a window into understanding
 microheterogeneity, bacterial speciation, and taxonomic relationships.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Preparations of purified full-length fusion (F) protein of human
 respiratory syncytial virus (HRSV) expressed in recombinant vaccinia-F
 infected cells, or of an anchorless mutant (FTM−)
 lacking the C-terminal 50 amino acids secreted from
 vaccinia-FTM−-infected cells contain a minor
 polypeptide that is an intermediate product of proteolytic processing
 of the F protein precursor F0. N-terminal sequencing of the
 intermediate demonstrated that it is generated by cleavage at a
 furin-motif, residues 106–109 of the F sequence. By contrast, the F1 N
 terminus derives from cleavage at residue 137 of F0 which is also
 C-terminal to a furin recognition site at residues 131–136.
 Site-directed mutagenesis indicates that processing of F0 protein
 involves independent cleavage at both sites. Both cleavages are
 required for the F protein to be active in membrane fusion as judged by
 syncytia formation, and they allow changes in F structure from cone- to
 lollipop-shaped spikes and the formation of rosettes by anchorless F.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The key genetic component of methicillin resistance, the
 mecA determinant, is not native to Staphylococcus
 aureus. Thus, the evolution of methicillin-resistant S.
 aureus (MRSA) must have begun with the acquisition of the
 mecA determinant from an unknown heterologous source
 some time before the first reported appearance of MRSA isolates in
 clinical specimens in the U.K. and Denmark (in the early 1960s). We
 compared the genetic backgrounds and phenotypes of a group of
 methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA) isolates to the
 properties of MRSA strains isolated in Denmark and the U.K. during the
 same time period, and also to the genetic profiles of contemporary
 epidemic clones of MRSA. All early MRSA isolates resembled a large
 group of the early MSSA blood isolates in phenotypic and genetic
 properties, including phage group, antibiotype (resistance to
 penicillin, streptomycin, and tetracycline), pulsed-field gel
 electrophoresis pattern, and spaA type and multilocus
 sequence type, strongly suggesting that the early MSSA examined here
 represented the progeny of a strain that served as one of the first
 S. aureus recipients of the methicillin-resistance
 determinant in Europe. The genetic background of this group of early
 MSSA isolates was also very similar to that of the widely disseminated
 contemporary “Iberian clone” of MRSA, suggesting that genetic
 determinants present in early MSSA and essential for some aspects of
 the epidemicity and/or virulence of these strains may have been
 retained by this highly successful contemporary MRSA lineage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Asymmetric localization is key to the proper function of certain
 prokaryotic proteins important to virulence, chemotaxis, cell division,
 development, motility, and adhesion. Shigella IcsA is
 localized to the old pole of the bacterium, where it mediates assembly
 of an actin tail inside infected mammalian cells. IcsA (VirG) is
 essential to Shigella intracellular motility and
 virulence. We used translational fusions between portions of IcsA and
 the green fluorescent protein (GFP) to determine the regions of IcsA
 that are necessary and sufficient for its targeting to the bacterial
 old pole. An IcsA-GFP fusion that lacks a signal peptide localized to
 the old pole, indicating that signal peptide-mediated secretion is not
 required for polar localization. Two regions within IcsA were required
 for localization of an IcsA-GFP fusion to the old pole. Further
 characterization of these regions indicated that amino acids 1–104 and
 507–620 were each independently sufficient for polar localization.
 Finally, when expressed in Escherichia coli,
 Salmonella typhimurium, Yersinia
 pseudotuberculosis, and Vibrio cholerae, each of
 the two targeting regions localized to the pole, indicating that the
 mechanism of polar targeting used by IcsA is present generally among
 Enterobacteriacae and Vibrio.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sinorhizobium meliloti is an
 α-proteobacterium that forms agronomically important
 N2-fixing root nodules in legumes. We report here the
 complete sequence of the largest constituent of its genome, a 62.7%
 GC-rich 3,654,135-bp circular chromosome. Annotation allowed assignment
 of a function to 59% of the 3,341 predicted protein-coding ORFs, the
 rest exhibiting partial, weak, or no similarity with any known
 sequence. Unexpectedly, the level of reiteration within this replicon
 is low, with only two genes duplicated with more than 90% nucleotide
 sequence identity, transposon elements accounting for 2.2% of the
 sequence, and a few hundred short repeated palindromic motifs (RIME1,
 RIME2, and C) widespread over the chromosome. Three regions with a
 significantly lower GC content are most likely of external origin.
 Detailed annotation revealed that this replicon contains all
 housekeeping genes except two essential genes that are located on
 pSymB. Amino acid/peptide transport and degradation and sugar
 metabolism appear as two major features of the S.
 meliloti chromosome. The presence in this replicon of a large
 number of nucleotide cyclases with a peculiar structure, as well as of
 genes homologous to virulence determinants of animal and plant
 pathogens, opens perspectives in the study of this bacterium both as a
 free-living soil microorganism and as a plant symbiont.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The symbiotic nitrogen-fixing soil bacterium Sinorhizobium
 meliloti contains three replicons: pSymA, pSymB, and the
 chromosome. We report here the complete 1,354,226-nt sequence of pSymA.
 In addition to a large fraction of the genes known to be specifically
 involved in symbiosis, pSymA contains genes likely to be involved in
 nitrogen and carbon metabolism, transport, stress, and resistance
 responses, and other functions that give S. meliloti an
 advantage in its specialized niche.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Analysis of the 1,683,333-nt sequence of the pSymB megaplasmid from
 the symbiotic N2-fixing bacterium Sinorhizobium
 meliloti revealed that the replicon has a high gene density
 with a total of 1,570 protein-coding regions, with few insertion
 elements and regions duplicated elsewhere in the genome. The only
 copies of an essential arg-tRNA gene and the minCDE
 genes are located on pSymB. Almost 20% of the pSymB sequence carries
 genes encoding solute uptake systems, most of which were of the
 ATP-binding cassette family. Many previously unsuspected genes involved
 in polysaccharide biosynthesis were identified and these, together with
 the two known distinct exopolysaccharide synthesis gene clusters, show
 that 14% of the pSymB sequence is dedicated to polysaccharide
 synthesis. Other recognizable gene clusters include many involved in
 catabolic activities such as protocatechuate utilization and
 phosphonate degradation. The functions of these genes are consistent
 with the notion that pSymB plays a major role in the saprophytic
 competence of the bacteria in the soil environment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most studies of gene expression in Plasmodium have
 been concerned with asexual and/or sexual erythrocytic stages.
 Identification and cloning of genes expressed in the preerythrocytic
 stages lag far behind. We have constructed a high quality cDNA library
 of the Plasmodium sporozoite stage by using the rodent
 malaria parasite P. yoelii, an important model for
 malaria vaccine development. The technical obstacles associated with
 limited amounts of RNA material were overcome by PCR-amplifying the
 transcriptome before cloning. Contamination with mosquito RNA was
 negligible. Generation of 1,972 expressed sequence tags (EST) resulted
 in a total of 1,547 unique sequences, allowing insight into sporozoite
 gene expression. The circumsporozoite protein (CS) and the sporozoite
 surface protein 2 (SSP2) are well represented in the data set. A
 blastx search with all tags of the nonredundant protein
 database gave only 161 unique significant matches
 (P(N) ≤ 10−4), whereas
 1,386 of the unique sequences represented novel sporozoite-expressed
 genes. We identified ESTs for three proteins that may be involved in
 host cell invasion and documented their expression in sporozoites.
 These data should facilitate our understanding of the preerythrocytic
 Plasmodium life cycle stages and the development of
 preerythrocytic vaccines.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) plays an important role in
 host defense. Macrophages expressing iNOS release the reactive nitrogen
 intermediates (RNI) nitrite and S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), which are
 bactericidal in vitro at a pH characteristic of the
 phagosome of activated macrophages. We sought to characterize the
 active intrabacterial forms of these RNI and their molecular targets.
 Peptide methionine sulfoxide reductase (MsrA; EC 1.8.4.6) catalyzes the
 reduction of methionine sulfoxide (Met-O) in proteins to methionine
 (Met). E. coli lacking MsrA were hypersensitive to
 killing not only by hydrogen peroxide, but also by nitrite and GSNO.
 The wild-type phenotype was restored by transformation with plasmids
 encoding msrA from E. coli or M.
 tuberculosis, but not by an enzymatically inactive mutant
 msrA, indicating that Met oxidation was involved in the
 death of these cells. It seemed paradoxical that nitrite and GSNO kill
 bacteria by oxidizing Met residues when these RNI cannot themselves
 oxidize Met. However, under anaerobic conditions, neither nitrite nor
 GSNO was bactericidal. Nitrite and GSNO can both give rise to NO, which
 may react with superoxide produced by bacteria during aerobic
 metabolism, forming peroxynitrite, a known oxidant of Met to Met-O.
 Thus, the findings are consistent with the hypotheses that nitrite and
 GSNO kill E. coli by intracellular conversion to
 peroxynitrite, that intracellular Met residues in proteins constitute a
 critical target for peroxynitrite, and that MsrA can be essential for
 the repair of peroxynitrite-mediated intracellular damage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurogenic genes in the Notch receptor-mediated signaling pathway
 play important roles in neuronal cell fate specification as well as
 neuronal differentiation. The Drosophila neuralized gene
 is one of the neurogenic genes. We have cloned a mouse homolog of
 Drosophila neuralized, m-neu1, and found
 that the m-neu1 transcript is expressed in
 differentiated neurons. Mice deficient for m-neu1 are
 viable and morphologically normal, but exhibit specific defects in
 olfactory discrimination and hypersensitivity to ethanol. These
 findings reveal an essential role of m-neu1 in ensuring
 proper processing of certain information in the adult brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Brain glucose utilization is markedly depressed in adult rats made
 cretinous after birth. To ascertain which subtype of thyroid hormone
 (TH) receptors, TRα1 or TRβ, is involved in the regulation of
 glucose utilization during brain development, we used the
 2-[14C]deoxyglucose method in mice with a mutation in
 either their TRα or TRβ gene. A C insertion produced a frameshift
 mutation in their carboxyl terminus. These mutants lacked TH binding
 and transactivation activities and exhibited potent dominant negative
 activity. Glucose utilization in the homozygous TRβPV mutant mice and
 their wild-type siblings was almost identical in 19 brain regions,
 whereas it was markedly reduced in all brain regions of the
 heterozygous TRα1PV mice. These suggest that the α1 receptor
 mediates the TH effects in brain. Inasmuch as local cerebral glucose
 utilization is closely related to local synaptic activity, we also
 examined which thyroid hormone receptor is involved in the expression
 of synaptotagmin-related gene 1 (Srg1), a TH-positively
 regulated gene involved in the formation and function of synapses
 [Thompson, C. C. (1996) J. Neurosci. 16,
 7832–7840]. Northern analysis showed that Srg1 expression was
 markedly reduced in the cerebellum of
 TRαPV/+ mice but not
 TRβPV/PV mice. These results show that the
 same receptor, TRα1, is involved in the regulation by TH of both
 glucose utilization and Srg1 expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors exert slow and prolonged
 synaptic effects in both vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems.
 Through activation of G proteins, they typically decrease intracellular
 cAMP levels by inhibition of adenylate cyclase or stimulate
 phospholipase C and the turnover of inositol phosphates. In insects,
 muscarinic receptors have been credited with two main functions:
 inhibition of transmitter release from sensory neuron terminals and
 regulation of the excitability of motoneurons and interneurons. Our
 pharmacological studies with intact and behaving grasshoppers revealed
 a functional role for muscarinic acetylcholine receptors as being the
 basis for specific arousal in defined areas of the brain, underlying
 the selection and control of acoustic communication behavior. Periodic
 injections of acetylcholine into distinct areas of the brain elicited
 songs of progressively increasing duration. Coinjections of the
 muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine and periodic stimulations
 with muscarine identified muscarinic receptor activation as being the
 basis for the underlying accumulation of excitation. In contrast to
 reports from other studies on functional circuits, muscarinic
 excitation was apparently mediated by activation of the adenylate
 cyclase pathway. Stimulation of adenylate cyclase with forskolin and of
 protein kinase A with 8-Br-cAMP mimicked the stimulatory effects of
 muscarine whereas inhibition of adenylate cyclase with SQ22536 and of
 protein kinase A with H-89 and Rp-cAMPs suppressed muscarine-stimulated
 singing behavior. Activation of adenylate cyclase by muscarinic
 receptors has previously been reported from studies on membrane
 preparations and heterologous expression systems, but a physiological
 significance of this pathway remained to be demonstrated in an
 in vivo preparation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
At mammalian neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), innervation induces
 and maintains the metabolic stability of acetylcholine receptors
 (AChRs). To explore whether neural agrin may cause similar receptor
 stabilization, we injected neural agrin cDNA of increasing transfection
 efficiencies into denervated adult rat soleus (SOL) muscles. As the
 efficiency increased, the amount of recombinant neural agrin expressed
 in the muscles also increased. This agrin aggregated AChRs on muscle
 fibers, whose half-life increased in a dose-dependent way from 1 to 10
 days. Electrical muscle stimulation enhanced the stability of AChRs
 with short half-lives. Therefore, neural agrin can stabilize aggregated
 AChRs in a concentration- and activity-dependent way. However, there
 was no effect of stimulation on AChRs with a long half-life (10 days).
 Thus, at sufficiently high concentrations, neural agrin alone can
 stabilize AChRs to levels characteristic of innervated NMJs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A common complaint among pain patients is that they lose their
 appetite. These accounts are anecdotal, however, and the neural
 mechanism underlying pain-induced loss of appetite remains unknown. In
 this study, we documented the occurrence of appetite loss in patients
 under migraine attack and investigated the neuronal substrate of
 pain-induced anorexia in our animal model of intracranial pain. We
 found that loss of appetite during the migraine attack in humans
 coincided strongly with the onset and duration of the head pain in
 32/39 cases, and that brief noxious stimulation of the dura in
 conscious rats produced a transient suppression of food intake. Mapping
 of neuronal activation in the rat showed that noxious dural stimulation
 induced a 3- to 4-fold increase in the number of Fos-positive neurons
 in medullary dorsal horn areas that process nociceptive signals
 (laminae I, V) and in parabrachial and hypothalamic neurons positioned
 to suppress feeding behavior. In the parabrachial area, activated
 neurons were localized in the superior-lateral subnucleus, and 40% of
 them expressed the mRNA encoding the anorectic neuropeptide
 cholecystokinin. In the hypothalamus, activated Fos-positive neurons
 were found in the dorsomedial area of the ventromedial nucleus, and
 76% of them expressed the mRNA for cholecystokinin type-B receptor.
 Based on these findings, we suggest that at least one of several groups
 of hypothalamic neurons that normally inhibit appetite in response to
 metabolic cues is positioned to mediate the suppression of food intake
 by pain signals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Patients infected with Trypanosoma cruzi may remain
 asymptomatic for decades and show signs of neuroregeneration in the
 peripheral nervous system (PNS). In the absence of such
 neuroregeneration, patients may die in part by extensive neuronal
 destruction in the gastrointestinal tract. Thus, T.
 cruzi may, despite their invasion of the PNS,
 directly prevent cell death to keep nerve destruction in check. Indeed,
 T. cruzi invasion of Schwann cells, their prime target
 in PNS, suppressed host-cell apoptosis caused by growth-factor
 deprivation. The trans-sialidase (TS) of T. cruzi and
 the Cys-rich domain of TS reproduced the antiapoptotic activity
 of the parasites at doses (≥3.0 nM) comparable or lower than those of
 bona fide mammalian growth factors. This effect was blocked
 by LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). TS
 also activated Akt, a downstream effector of PI3K. Ectopic expression
 of TS in an unrelated parasite, Leishmania major, turned
 those parasites into activators of Akt in Schwann cells. In contrast,
 the Cys-rich domain of TS did not block apoptosis in Schwann
 cells overexpressing dominant-negative Akt or constitutively active
 PTEN, a negative regulator of PI3K/Akt signaling. The results
 demonstrate that T. cruzi, through its TS, triggers the
 survival of host Schwann cells via the PI3K/Akt pathway, suggesting a
 role for PI3K/Akt in the pathogenesis of Chagas' disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Royal College of Surgeons rats are genetically predisposed to
 undergo significant visual loss caused by a primary dysfunction of
 retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. By using this model, we have
 examined the efficacy of subretinal transplantation of two independent
 human RPE cell lines each exhibiting genetic modifications that confer
 long-term stability in vitro. The two cell lines, a
 spontaneously derived cell line (ARPE19) and an extensively
 characterized genetically engineered human RPE cell line (h1RPE7),
 which expresses SV40 large T (tumor) antigen, were evaluated
 separately. Both lines result in a significant preservation of visual
 function as assessed by either behavioral or physiological techniques.
 This attenuation of visual loss correlates with photoreceptor survival
 and the presence of donor cells in the areas of rescued photoreceptors
 at 5 months postgrafting (6 months of age). These results demonstrate
 the potential of genetically modified human RPE cells for ultimate
 application in therapeutic transplantation strategies for retinal
 degenerative diseases caused by RPE dysfunction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The retina's photoreceptor cells adjust their sensitivity to allow
 photons to be transduced over a wide range of light intensities. One
 mechanism thought to participate in sensitivity adjustments is
 Ca2+ regulation of guanylate cyclase (GC) by guanylate
 cyclase-activating proteins (GCAPs). We evaluated the contribution of
 GCAPs to sensitivity regulation in rods by disrupting their expression
 in transgenic mice. The GC activity from GCAPs−/− retinas showed no
 Ca2+ dependence, indicating that Ca2+
 regulation of GCs had indeed been abolished. Flash responses from
 dark-adapted GCAPs−/− rods were larger and slower than responses
 from wild-type rods. In addition, the incremental flash sensitivity of
 GCAPs−/− rods failed to be maintained at wild-type levels in bright
 steady light. GCAP2 expressed in GCAPs−/− rods restored maximal
 light-induced GC activity but did not restore normal flash response
 kinetics. We conclude that GCAPs strongly regulate GC activity in mouse
 rods, decreasing the flash sensitivity in darkness and increasing the
 incremental flash sensitivity in bright steady light, thereby extending
 the rod's operating range.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A principle that regulates detailed architecture in the brain is
 that active terminals have a competitive advantage over less active
 terminals in establishing synaptic connections. This principle is known
 to apply to fibers within a single neuronal population competing for a
 common target domain. Here we uncover an additional rule that applies
 when two neuronal populations compete for two contiguous territories.
 The cerebellar Purkinje cell dendrites have two different synaptic
 domains with spines innervated by two separate excitatory inputs,
 parallel fibers (PFs) and climbing fibers (CFs). Glutamate δ-2
 receptors are normally present only on the PF spines where they are
 important for their innervation. After block of activity by
 tetrodotoxin, numerous new spines form in the CF domain and become
 innervated mainly by PFs; all spines, including those still innervated
 by the CFs, bear δ-2 receptors. Thus, in the absence of activity, PFs
 gain a competitive advantage over CFs. The entire dendritic arbor
 becomes a uniform territory with the molecular cues associated with the
 PFs. To access their proper territory and maintain synaptic contacts,
 CFs must be active and locally repress the cues of the competitor
 afferents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Galanin is a 29-aa neuropeptide with a complex role in pain
 processing. Several galanin receptor subtypes are present in dorsal
 root ganglia and spinal cord with a differential distribution. Here, we
 describe a generation of a specific galanin R2 (GalR2) agonist,
 AR-M1896, and its application in studies of a rat neuropathic pain
 model (Bennett). The results show that in normal rats mechanical and
 cold allodynia of the hindpaw are induced after intrathecal infusion of
 low-dose galanin (25 ng per 0.5 μl/h). The same effect is seen with
 equimolar doses of AR-M1896 or AR-M961, an agonist both at GalR1 and
 GalR2 receptors. In allodynic Bennett model rats, the mechanical
 threshold increased dose-dependently after intrathecal injection of a
 high dose of AR-M961, whereas no effect was observed in the control or
 AR-M1896 group. No effect of either of the two compounds was observed
 in nonallodynic Bennett model rats. These data indicate that a low dose
 of galanin has a nociceptive role at the spinal cord level mediated by
 GalR2 receptors, whereas the antiallodynic effect of high-dose galanin
 on neuropathic pain is mediated by the GalR1 receptors. Thus, a
 selective GalR1 agonist may be used to treat neuropathic pain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Orexin neurons are exclusively localized in the lateral
 hypothalamic area and project their fibers to the entire central
 nervous system, including the histaminergic tuberomammillary nucleus
 (TMN). Dysfunction of the orexin system results in the sleep disorder
 narcolepsy, but the role of orexin in physiological sleep–wake
 regulation and the mechanisms involved remain to be elucidated. Here we
 provide several lines of evidence that orexin A induces wakefulness by
 means of the TMN and histamine H1 receptor (H1R). Perfusion
 of orexin A (5 and 25 pmol/min) for 1 hr into the TMN of rats
 through a microdialysis probe promptly increased wakefulness for 2
 hr after starting the perfusion by 2.5- and 4-fold, respectively,
 concomitant with a reduction in rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM
 sleep. Microdialysis studies showed that application of orexin A to the
 TMN increased histamine release from both the medial preoptic area and
 the frontal cortex by ≈2-fold over the baseline for 80 to 160 min in
 a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, infusion of orexin A (1.5
 pmol/min) for 6 hr into the lateral ventricle of mice produced a
 significant increase in wakefulness during the 8 hr after starting
 infusion to the same level as the wakefulness observed during the
 active period in wild-type mice, but not at all in H1R gene knockout
 mice. These findings strongly indicate that the arousal effect of
 orexin A depends on the activation of histaminergic neurotransmission
 mediated by H1R.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cpefat/Cpefat
 mice have a naturally occurring point mutation within the
 carboxypeptidase E gene that inactivates this enzyme, leading to an
 accumulation of many neuroendocrine peptides containing C-terminal
 basic residues. These processing intermediates can be readily purified
 on an anhydrotrypsin affinity resin. Using MS to obtain molecular mass
 and partial sequence information, more than 100 peptides have been
 identified. These peptides represent fragments of 16 known secretory
 pathway proteins, including proenkephalin, proopiomelanocortin,
 protachykinins A and B, chromogranin A and B, and secretogranin II.
 Many of the identified peptides represent previously uncharacterized
 fragments of the precursors. For example, 12 of the 13 chromogranin
 B-derived peptides found in the present study have not been previously
 reported. Of these 13 chromogranin B-derived peptides, only five
 contain consensus cleavage sites for prohormone convertases at both the
 C and N termini. Two distinct chromogranin B-derived peptides result
 from cleavage at Trp-Trp bonds, a site not typically associated with
 neuropeptide processing. An RIA was used to confirm that one of these
 peptides, designated WE-15, exists in wild-type mouse brain, thus
 validating the approach to identify peptides in
 Cpefat/Cpefat
 mice. These “orphan” peptides are candidate ligands for orphan G
 protein-coupled receptors. In addition, the general technique of using
 affinity chromatography to isolate endogenous substrates
 from a mutant organism lacking an enzyme should be applicable to a wide
 range of enzyme-substrate systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Up-regulation of proapoptotic genes has been reported in
 heart failure and myocardial infarction. To determine whether caspase
 genes can affect cardiac function, a transgenic mouse was generated.
 Cardiac tissue-specific overexpression of the proapoptotic gene
 Caspase3 was induced by using the rat promoter of
 α-myosin heavy chain, a model that may represent a unique tool for
 investigating new molecules and antiapoptotic therapeutic
 strategies. Cardiac-specific Caspase3 expression induced
 transient depression of cardiac function and abnormal nuclear and
 myofibrillar ultrastructural damage. When subjected to myocardial
 ischemia–reperfusion injury, Caspase3 transgenic mice
 showed increased infarct size and a pronounced susceptibility to die.
 In this report, we document an unexpected property of the
 proapoptotic gene caspase3 on cardiac contractility. Despite
 inducing ultrastructural damage, Caspase3 does not
 trigger a full apoptotic response in the cardiomyocyte. We also
 implicate Caspase3 in determining myocardial infarct
 size after ischemia–reperfusion injury, because its
 cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression increases infarct size.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adenosine is a determinant of metabolic control of organ function
 increasing oxygen supply through the A2 class of adenosine receptors
 and reducing oxygen demand through A1 adenosine receptors (A1AR). In
 the kidney, activation of A1AR in afferent glomerular arterioles has
 been suggested to contribute to tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF), the
 vasoconstriction elicited by elevations in [NaCl] in the macula densa
 region of the nephron. To further elucidate the role of A1AR in TGF, we
 have generated mice in which the entire A1AR coding sequence was
 deleted by homologous recombination. Homozygous A1AR mutants that do
 not express A1AR mRNA transcripts and do not respond to A1AR agonists
 are viable and without gross anatomical abnormalities. Plasma and
 urinary electrolytes were not different between genotypes. Likewise,
 arterial blood pressure, heart rates, and glomerular filtration rates
 were indistinguishable between A1AR+/+,
 A1AR+/−, and A1AR−/− mice. TGF responses to
 an increase in loop of Henle flow rate from 0 to 30 nl/min, whether
 determined as change of stop flow pressure or early proximal flow rate,
 were completely abolished in A1AR−/− mice (stop flow
 pressure response, −6.8 ± 0.55 mmHg and −0.4 ± 0.2 in
 A1AR+/+ and A1AR−/− mice; early proximal flow
 rate response, −3.4 ± 0.4 nl/min and +0.02 ± 0.3
 nl/min in A1AR+/+ and A1AR−/− mice).
 Absence of TGF responses in A1AR-deficient mice suggests that adenosine
 is a required constituent of the juxtaglomerular signaling pathway.
 A1AR null mutant mice are a promising tool to study the functional role
 of A1AR in different target tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Connexin 43 (Cx43) is a protein expressed in a variety of mammalian
 tissues. However, the lack of specific blockers and the absence of
 known genetic mutants have hampered the investigation of the function
 of this protein. Cx43-null mice die shortly after birth, thus
 preventing functional studies in vivo. Here, we report
 the generation and characterization of a vascular endothelial
 cell-specific deletion of the Cx43 gene (VEC Cx43 KO) in
 mice by using the loxP/Cre system. Using homologous recombination, a
 mouse line was created carrying loxP sites flanking exon 2 of the
 Cx43 gene (“floxed” mice). To produce cell
 specific deletion of the Cx43 gene, these mice were
 crossed with animals from a line carrying the Tie 2-Cre transgene. The
 homozygous VEC Cx43 KO mice survived to maturity. However, they were
 hypotensive and bradycardic when compared with heterozygous VEC Cx43 KO
 mice, or to the floxed Cx43 gene mice. The hypotension
 was associated with marked elevation of plasma nitric oxide (NO) levels
 as well as elevated plasma angiotensin (Ang) I and II. We hypothesize
 that endothelial cell Cx43 plays a key role in the formation and/or
 action of NO, and that the elevation of Ang II is a secondary event.
 The specific cellular basis for the hypotension remains to be
 established, but our findings support the idea that endothelial Cx43
 gap junctions are involved in maintaining normal vascular function;
 moreover, these animals provide the opportunity to determine more
 clearly the role of endothelial Cx43 in vascular development and
 homeostasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ability of Thlaspi goesingense to
 hyperaccumulate Ni seems to be governed in part by enhanced
 accumulation of Ni within leaf vacuoles. We have characterized genes
 from T. goesingense encoding putative vacuolar metal ion
 transport proteins, termed metal
 tolerance proteins (TgMTPs). These
 proteins contain all of the features of cation-efflux family members,
 and evidence indicates they are derived from a single genomic sequence
 (TgMTP1) that gives rise to an unspliced
 (TgMTP1t1) and a spliced (TgMTP1t2)
 transcript. Heterologous expression of these transcripts in yeast
 lacking the TgMTP1 orthologues COT1 and ZRC1 complements the metal
 sensitivity of these yeast strains, suggesting that TgMTP1s are able to
 transport metal ions into the yeast vacuole in a manner similar to COT1
 and ZRC1. The unspliced and spliced TgMTP1 variants differ within a
 histidine-rich putative metal-binding domain, and these sequence
 differences are reflected as alterations in the metal specificities of
 these metal ion transporters. When expressed in yeast,
 TgMTP1t1 confers the highest level of tolerance to Cd,
 Co, and Zn, whereas TgMTP1t2 confers the highest
 tolerance to Ni. TgMTP1 transcripts are highly expressed
 in T. goesingense compared with orthologues in the
 nonaccumulators Arabidopsis thaliana, Thlaspi
 arvense, and Brassica juncea. We propose that
 the high-level expression of TgMTP1 in T.
 goesingense accounts for the enhanced ability of this
 hyperaccumulator to accumulate metal ions within shoot vacuoles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Choline (Cho) is the precursor of the osmoprotectant glycine
 betaine and is itself an essential nutrient for humans. Metabolic
 engineering of Cho biosynthesis in plants could therefore enhance both
 their resistance to osmotic stresses (drought and salinity) and their
 nutritional value. The key enzyme of the plant Cho-synthesis pathway is
 phosphoethanolamine N-methyltransferase, which catalyzes
 all three of the methylations required to convert phosphoethanolamine
 to phosphocholine. We show here that overexpressing this enzyme in
 transgenic tobacco increased the levels of phosphocholine by 5-fold and
 free Cho by 50-fold without affecting phosphatidylcholine content or
 growth. Moreover, the expanded Cho pool led to a 30-fold increase in
 synthesis of glycine betaine via an engineered glycine betaine pathway.
 Supplying the transgenics with the Cho precursor ethanolamine (EA)
 further enhanced Cho levels even though the supplied EA was extensively
 catabolized. These latter results establish that there is further scope
 for improving Cho synthesis by engineering an increased
 endogenous supply of EA and suggest that this could be
 achieved by enhancing EA synthesis and/or by suppressing its
 degradation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In social environments, multiple sensory channels are
 simultaneously engaged in the service of communication. In this
 experiment, we were concerned with defining the neuronal mechanisms for
 a perceptual bias in processing simultaneously presented emotional
 voices and faces. Specifically, we were interested in how bimodal
 presentation of a fearful voice facilitates recognition of fearful
 facial expression. By using event-related functional MRI, that crossed
 sensory modality (visual or auditory) with emotional expression
 (fearful or happy), we show that perceptual facilitation during face
 fear processing is expressed through modulation of neuronal responses
 in the amygdala and the fusiform cortex. These data suggest that the
 amygdala is important for emotional crossmodal sensory convergence with
 the associated perceptual bias during fear processing, being mediated
 by task-related modulation of face-processing regions of fusiform
 cortex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We explore the impact of a host genetic factor on heterosexual HIV epidemics by using a deterministic mathematical model. A protective allele unequally distributed across populations is exemplified in our models by the 32-bp deletion in the host-cell chemokine receptor CCR5, CCR5Δ32. Individuals homozygous for CCR5Δ32 are protected against HIV infection whereas those heterozygous for CCR5Δ32 have lower pre-AIDS viral loads and delayed progression to AIDS. CCR5Δ32 may limit HIV spread by decreasing the probability of both risk of infection and infectiousness. In this work, we characterize epidemic HIV within three dynamic subpopulations: CCR5/CCR5 (homozygous, wild type), CCR5/CCR5Δ32 (heterozygous), and CCR5Δ32/CCR5Δ32 (homozygous, mutant). Our results indicate that prevalence of HIV/AIDS is greater in populations lacking the CCR5Δ32 alleles (homozygous wild types only) as compared with populations that include people heterozygous or homozygous for CCR5Δ32. Also, we show that HIV can provide selective pressure for CCR5Δ32, increasing the frequency of this allele.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evaluation of the electrostatic properties of biomolecules has become a standard practice in molecular biophysics. Foremost among the models used to elucidate the electrostatic potential is the Poisson-Boltzmann equation; however, existing methods for solving this equation have limited the scope of accurate electrostatic calculations to relatively small biomolecular systems. Here we present the application of numerical methods to enable the trivially parallel solution of the Poisson-Boltzmann equation for supramolecular structures that are orders of magnitude larger in size. As a demonstration of this methodology, electrostatic potentials have been calculated for large microtubule and ribosome structures. The results point to the likely role of electrostatics in a variety of activities of these structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multichromophoric hydrogen-bonded assemblies 13⋅(BAR)6 are studied that bear a remarkably close resemblance to commelinin, a naturally occurring assembly responsible for an intense blue color of flowers. The incorporated chromophores exhibit a hypsochromic shift in the UV/visible (Vis) absorption maximum (Δ λmax = 14 nm) compared with the free chromophores. In addition, the chiroptical properties of incorporated chromophores can be rationally controlled by changing the supramolecular chirality of the assembly. These properties have been used to study the stability of this type of assembly with UV and CD spectroscopy at concentrations far below the NMR sensitivity threshold (10−4 M). The determined C50% values of 2–3 μM in benzene show the extremely high stability of these hydrogen-bonded assemblies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This study aimed at determining whether audiovisual training without linguistic material has a remediating effect on reading skills and central auditory processing in dyslexic children. It was found that this training resulted in plastic changes in the auditory cortex, indexed by enhanced electrophysiological mismatch negativity and faster reaction times to sound changes. Importantly, these changes were accompanied by improvement in reading skills. The results indicate that reading difficulties can be ameliorated by special training programs and, further, that the training effects can be observed in brain activity. Moreover, the fact that the present training effects were obtained by using a program including no linguistic material indicates that dyslexia is at least partly based on a general auditory perceptual deficit.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The see-through medaka is a vertebrate model with a transparent body in the adult stage, as well as during the embryonic stages, that was generated from a small laboratory fish, medaka (Oryzias latipes). In this fish model, most of the pigments are genetically removed from the entire body by a combination of recessive alleles at four loci. The main internal organs, namely, heart, spleen, blood vessels, liver, gut, gonads, kidney, brain, spinal cord, lens, air bladder, and gills, in living adult fish are visible to the naked eye or with a simple stereoscopic microscope. This fish is healthy and fertile. A transgenic see-through medaka was produced by using the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene fused to the regulatory regions of the medaka vasa gene, in which germ cell-specific expression of GFP was visualized. The fluorescent tag also efficiently improved visibility of gonadal tissues. The process of oocyte maturation in the ovary was monitored by repeated observations from the outside of the body during one spawning cycle in the same living females of the transgenic see-through stock. The see-through medaka will provide an opportunity for noninvasive studies of morphological and molecular events that occur in internal organs in the later stages of life.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Technologies for biological research arise in multiple ways—through serendipity, through inspired insights, and through incremental advances—and they are tightly coupled to progress in engineering. Underlying the complex dynamics of technology and biology are the different motivations of those who work in the two realms. Consideration of how methodologies emerge has implications for the planning of interdisciplinary centers and the training of the next generation of scientists.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There is evidence both for and against Na+- and Cl−-dependent neurotransmitter transporters forming oligomers. We found that cross-linking the human dopamine transporter (DAT), which is heterologously expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells, either with copper phenanthroline (CuP) or the bifunctional reagent bis-(2-methanethiosulfonatoethyl)amine hydrochloride (bis-EA) increased the apparent molecular mass determined with nonreducing SDS/PAGE from ≈85 to ≈195 kDa. After cross-linking, but not before, coexpressed, differentially epitope-tagged DAT molecules, solubilized in Triton X-100, were coimmunoprecipitated. Thus, the 195-kDa complex was a homodimer. Cross-linking of DAT did not affect tyramine uptake. Replacement of Cys-306 with Ala prevented cross-linking. Replacement of all of the non-disulfide-bonded cysteines in the extracellular and membrane domains, except for Cys-306, did not prevent cross-linking. We conclude that the cross-link is between Cys-306 at the extracellular end of TM6 in each of the two DATs. The motif GVXXGVXXA occurs at the intracellular end of TM6 in DAT and is found in a number of other neurotransmitter transporters. This sequence was originally found at the dimerization interface in glycophorin A, and it promotes dimerization in model systems. Mutation of either glycine disrupted DAT expression and function. The intracellular end of TM6, like the extracellular end, is likely to be part of the dimerization interface.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transmembrane helix M6 of the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA) has been shown to form a site of interaction with phospholamban (PLN). Site-directed mutagenesis was carried out in the cytoplasmic loop (L67) between M6 and M7 in SERCA1a to detect other SERCA-PLN binding sites. Mutants N810A, D813A, and R822A had diminished ability to interact functionally with PLN, but only D813A and R822A had reduced physical interaction with PLN. PLN mutants R25A, Q26A, N27A, L28A, Q29A, and N30A had enhanced physical interaction with wild-type (wt) SERCA1a, but physical interaction of these PLN mutants with SERCA1a mutants D813A and R822A was reduced about 2.5 fold (range 1.44–2.82). Exceptions were the interactions of PLN N27A and N30A with SERCA1a D813A, which were reduced by 7.3- and 5.8-fold, respectively. A superinhibitory PLN deletion mutant, PLNΔ21–29, had strong physical interactions with SERCA1a and with SERCA1a mutant D813A. Physical interactions with SERCA1a and mutant D813A were sharply diminished, however, for the PLN deletion mutant, PLNΔ21–30, lacking PLN N30. Physical interactions between SERCA1a and a PLN-cytochrome b5 chimera containing PLN residues 1–29 were much stronger than those between a PLN-cytochrome b5 chimera containing PLN residues 1–21 and lacking N27. These results suggest that a SERCA1-PLN interaction site occurs between L67 of SERCA1a and domain IB of PLN, which involves SERCA1a D813 and PLN N27 and N30.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ribonucleotide reductases (RNRs) catalyze the conversion of nucleotides to deoxynucleotides. Class I RNRs are composed of two homodimeric subunits: R1 and R2. R1 is directly involved in the reduction, and R2 contains the diferric-tyrosyl radical (Y⋅) cofactor essential for the initiation of reduction. Saccharomyces cerevisiae has two RNRs; Y1 and Y3 correspond to R1, whereas Y2 and Y4 correspond to R2. Y4 is essential for diferric-Y⋅ formation in Y2 from apoY2, Fe2+, and O2. The actual function of Y4 is controversial. Y2 and Y4 have been further characterized in an effort to understand their respective roles in nucleotide reduction. (His)6-Y2, Y4, and (His)6-Y4 are homodimers, isolated largely in apo form. Their CD spectra reveal that they are predominantly helical. The concentrations of Y2 and Y4 in vivo are 0.5–2.3 μM, as determined by Western analysis. Incubation of Y2 and Y4 under physiological conditions generates apo Y2Y4 heterodimer, which can form a diferric-Y⋅ when incubated with Fe2+ and O2. Holo Y2Y4 heterodimer contains 0.6–0.8 Y⋅ and has a specific activity of 0.8–1.3 μmol⋅min⋅mg. Titration of Y2 with Y4 in the presence of Fe2+ and O2 gives maximal activity with one equivalent of Y4 per Y2. Models for the function of Y4 based on these data and the accompanying structure will be discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The R2 subunits of class I ribonucleotide reductases (RNRs) house a diferric-tyrosyl radical (Y·) cofactor essential for DNA synthesis. In yeast, there are two R2 proteins, Y2 and Y4. Although both Y2 and Y4 are homologous to R2s from other organisms, Y4 lacks three conserved iron-binding residues, and its exact function is unclear. Y4 is required for assembly of the diferric-Y· cofactor in Y2, and the two proteins can form both homodimeric and heterodimeric complexes. The Y2Y4 heterodimer was crystallized from a mixture of the two proteins, and its structure was determined to 2.8 Å resolution. Both Y2 and Y4 are completely α helical and resemble the mouse and Escherichia coli R2s in overall fold. Three α helices not observed in the mouse R2 structure are present at the Y2 N terminus, and one extra N-terminal helix is observed in Y4. In addition, one of the eight principal helices in both Y2 and Y4, αD, is shifted significantly from its position in mouse R2. The heterodimer interface is similar to the mouse R2 homodimer interface in size and interacting residues, but loop regions at the interface edges differ. A single metal ion, assigned as Zn(II), occupies the Fe2 position in the Y2 active site. Treatment of the crystals with Fe(II) results in difference electron density consistent with formation of a diiron center. No metal-binding site is observed in Y4. Instead, the residues in the active site region form a hydrogen-bonding network involving an arginine, two glutamic acids, and a water molecule.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In many higher plants, cellulose synthesis is inhibited by isoxaben and thiazolidinone herbicides such as 5-tert-butyl-carbamoyloxy-3-(3-trifluromethyl) phenyl-4-thiazolidinone. Semidominant mutations at the IXR1 and IXR2 loci of Arabidopsis confer isoxaben and thiazolidinone resistance. Isolation of the IXR1 gene by map-based cloning revealed that it encodes the AtCESA3 isoform of cellulose synthase. The two known mutant alleles contain point mutations that replace glycine 998 with aspartic acid, and threonine 942 with isoleucine, respectively. The mutations occur in a highly conserved region of the enzyme near the carboxyl terminus that is well separated from the proposed active site. Although the IXR1 gene is expressed in the same cells as the structurally related RSW1 (AtCESA1) cellulose synthase gene, these two CESA genes are not functionally redundant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The 165-kb chromosome of Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is replicated by cellular enzymes only once per cell cycle in human cells that are latently infected. Here, we report that the human origin recognition complex, ORC, can be detected in association with an EBV replication origin, oriP, in cells by using antibodies against three different subunits of human ORC to precipitate crosslinked chromatin. Mcm2, a subunit of the MCM replication licensing complex, was found to associate with oriP during G1 and to dissociate from it during S phase. The detection of ORC and Mcm2 at oriP was shown to require the presence of the 120-bp replicator of oriP. Licensing and initiation of replication at oriP of EBV thus seem to be mediated by ORC. This is an example of a virus apparently using ORC and associated factors for the propagation of its genome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Self-assembly of HIV-1 integrase (IN) in solution has been studied previously by time-resolved fluorescence, using tryptophan anisotropy decay. This approach provides information on the size of macromolecules via the determination of rotational correlation times (θ). We have shown that, at submicromolar concentration, IN is characterized by a long rotational correlation time (θ20°C = 90–100 ns) corresponding to a high-order oligomeric form, likely a tetramer. In the present work, we investigated the self-assembly properties of the DNA-bound IN by using three independent fluorophores. Under enzymatic assay conditions (10−7 M IN, 2 × 10−8 M DNA), using either fluorescein-labeled or fluorescent guanosine analog-containing oligonucleotides that mimic a viral end long terminal repeat sequence, we found that the DNA–IN complex was characterized by shorter θ20°C values of 15.5–19.5 and 23–27 ns, calculated from experiments performed at 25°C and 37°C, respectively. These results were confirmed by monitoring the Trp anisotropy decay as a function of the DNA substrate concentration: the θ of IN shifted from 90–100 ns to lower values (<30 ns) upon increasing the DNA concentration. Again, the normalized θ20°C values were significantly higher when monitored at 37°C as compared with 25°C. These results indicate that upon binding the viral DNA end, the multimeric enzyme undergoes a dissociation, most likely into a homogenous monomeric form at 25°C and into a monomer–dimer equilibrium at 37°C.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ribosome is a dynamic particle that undergoes many structural changes during translation. We show through chemical probing with dimethyl sulfate (DMS) that conformational changes occur at several nucleotides in the peptidyl transferase center upon alterations in pH, temperature, and monovalent ion concentration, consistent with observations made by Elson and coworkers over 30 years ago. Moreover, we have found that the pH-dependent DMS reactivity of A2451 in the center of the 23S rRNA peptidyl transferase region, ascribed to a perturbed pKa of this base, occurs only in inactive 50S and 70S ribosomes. The degree of DMS reactivity of this base in the inactive ribosomes depends on both the identity and amount of monovalent ion present. Furthermore, G2447, a residue proposed to be critical for the hypothesized pKa perturbation, is not essential for the conditional DMS reactivity at A2451. Given that the pH-dependent change in DMS reactivity at A2451 occurs only in inactive ribosomes, and that this DMS reactivity can increase with increasing salt (independently of pH), we conclude that this observation cannot be used as supporting evidence for a recently proposed model of acid/base catalyzed ribosomal transpeptidation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We prepared a stable cell line expressing the glucagon receptor to characterize the effect of Gs-coupled receptor stimulation on extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activity. Glucagon treatment of the cell line caused a dose-dependent increase in cAMP concentration, activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), and transient release of intracellular calcium. Glucagon treatment also caused rapid dose-dependent phosphorylation and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/ERK kinase (MEK1/2) and ERK1/2. Inhibition of either PKA or MEK1/2 blocked ERK1/2 activation by glucagon. However, no significant activation of several upstream activators of MEK, including Ras, Rap1, and Raf, was observed in response to glucagon treatment. In addition, chelation of intracellular calcium reduced glucagon-mediated ERK1/2 activation. In transient transfection experiments, glucagon receptor mutants that bound glucagon but failed to increase intracellular cAMP and calcium concentrations showed no glucagon-stimulated ERK1/2 phosphorylation. We conclude that glucagon-induced MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 activation is mediated by PKA and that an increase in intracellular calcium concentration is required for maximal ERK activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have previously reported that bacterial flavohemoglobin (HMP) catalyzes both a rapid reaction of heme-bound O2 with nitric oxide (NO) to form nitrate [HMP-Fe(II)O2 + NO → HMP-Fe(III) + NO] and, under anaerobic conditions, a slower reduction of heme-bound NO to an NO− equivalent (followed by the formation of N2O), thereby protecting against nitrosative stress under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, and rationalizing our finding that NO is rapidly consumed across a wide range of O2 concentrations. It has been alternatively suggested that HMP activity is inhibited at low pO2 because the enzyme is then in the relatively inactive nitrosyl form [koff/kon for NO (0.000008 μM) ≪ koff/kon for O2 (0.012 μM) and KM for O2 = 30–100 μM]. To resolve this discrepancy, we have directly measured heme-ligand turnover and NADH consumption under various O2/NO concentrations. We find that, at biologically relevant O2 concentrations, HMP preferentially binds NO (not O2), which it then reacts with oxygen to form nitrate (in essence NO− + O2 → NO). During steady-state turnover, the enzyme can be found in the ferric (FeIII) state. The formation of a heme-bound nitroxyl equivalent and its subsequent oxidation is a novel enzymatic function, and one that dominates the oxygenase activity under biologically relevant conditions. These data unify the mechanism of HMP/NO interaction with those recently described for the nematode Ascaris and mammalian hemoglobins, and more generally suggest that the peroxidase (FeIII)-like properties of globins have evolved for handling of NO.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Eukaryotic DNA repair enzymes must interact with the architectural hierarchy of chromatin. The challenge of finding damaged DNA complexed with histone proteins in nucleosomes is complicated by the need to maintain local chromatin structures involved in regulating other DNA processing events. The heterogeneity of lesions induced by DNA-damaging agents has led us to design homogeneously damaged substrates to directly compare repair of naked DNA with that of nucleosomes. Here we report that nucleotide excision repair in Xenopus nuclear extracts can effectively repair a single UV radiation photoproduct located 5 bases from the dyad center of a positioned nucleosome, although the nucleosome is repaired at about half the rate at which the naked DNA fragment is. Extract repair within the nucleosome is >50-fold more rapid than either enzymatic photoreversal or endonuclease cleavage of the lesion in vitro. Furthermore, nucleosome formation occurs (after repair) only on damaged naked DNA (165-bp fragments) during a 1-h incubation in these extracts, even in the presence of a large excess of undamaged DNA. This is an example of selective nucleosome assembly by Xenopus nuclear extracts on a short linear DNA fragment containing a DNA lesion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified a nuclear-encoded Hb from plants (GLB3) that has a central domain similar to the “truncated” Hbs of bacteria, protozoa, and algae. The three-dimensional structure of these Hbs is a 2-on-2 arrangement of α-helices, distinct from the 3-on-3 arrangement of the standard globin fold [Pesce, A., Couture, M., Dewilde, S., Guertin, M., Yamauchi, K., Ascenzi, P., Moens, L. & Bolognesi, M. (2000) EMBO J. 19, 2424–2434]. GLB3-like genes are not found in animals or yeast, but our analysis reveals that they are present in a wide range of Angiosperms and a Bryophyte. Although cyanobacteria and Chlamydomonas have 2-on-2 Hbs (GLBN), GLB3 is more likely related to GLBO-type 2-on-2 Hbs from bacteria. Consequently, GLB3 is unlikely to have arisen from a horizontal transfer between the chloroplast and nuclear genomes. Arabidopsis thaliana GLB3 protein exhibits unusual concentration-independent binding of O2 and CO. The absorbance spectrum of deoxy-GLB3 is unique; the protein forms a transient six-coordinate structure after reduction and deoxygenation, which slowly converts to a five-coordinate structure. In A. thaliana, GLB3 is expressed throughout the plant but responds to none of the treatments that induce plant 3-on-3 Hbs. Our analysis of the sequence, ligand interactions, and expression profile of GLB3 indicates that this protein has unique biochemical properties, evolutionary history, and, most likely, a function distinct from those of other plant Hbs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evaluation of the electrostatic properties of biomolecules has become a standard practice in molecular biophysics. Foremost among the models used to elucidate the electrostatic potential is the Poisson-Boltzmann equation; however, existing methods for solving this equation have limited the scope of accurate electrostatic calculations to relatively small biomolecular systems. Here we present the application of numerical methods to enable the trivially parallel solution of the Poisson-Boltzmann equation for supramolecular structures that are orders of magnitude larger in size. As a demonstration of this methodology, electrostatic potentials have been calculated for large microtubule and ribosome structures. The results point to the likely role of electrostatics in a variety of activities of these structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The successful prediction of protein structure from amino acid sequence requires two features: an efficient conformational search algorithm and an energy function with a global minimum in the native state. As a step toward addressing both issues, a threading-based method of secondary and tertiary restraint prediction has been developed and applied to ab initio folding. Such restraints are derived by extracting consensus contacts and local secondary structure from at least weakly scoring structures that, in some cases, can lack any global similarity to the sequence of interest. Furthermore, to generate representative protein structures, a reduced lattice-based protein model is used with replica exchange Monte Carlo to explore conformational space. We report results on the application of this methodology, termed TOUCHSTONE, to 65 proteins whose lengths range from 39 to 146 residues. For 47 (40) proteins, a cluster centroid whose rms deviation from native is below 6.5 (5) Å is found in one of the five lowest energy centroids. The number of correctly predicted proteins increases to 50 when atomic detail is added and a knowledge-based atomic potential is combined with clustered and nonclustered structures for candidate selection. The combination of the ratio of the relative number of contacts to the protein length and the number of clusters generated by the folding algorithm is a reliable indicator of the likelihood of successful fold prediction, thereby opening the way for genome-scale ab initio folding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sensory rhodopsins (SRs) belong to a subfamily of heptahelical transmembrane proteins containing a retinal chromophore. These photoreceptors mediate the cascade of vision in animal eyes and phototaxis in archaebacteria and unicellular flagellated algae. Signal transduction by these photoreceptors occurs by means of transducer proteins. The two archaebacterial sensory rhodopsins SRI and SRII are coupled to the membrane-bound HtrI and HtrII transducer proteins. Activation of these proteins initiates phosphorylation cascades that modulate the flagellar motors, resulting in either attractant (SRI) or repellent (SRII) phototaxis. In addition, transducer-free SRI and SRII were shown to operate as proton pumps, analogous to bacteriorhodopsin. Here, we present the x-ray structure of SRII from Natronobacterium pharaonis (pSRII) at 2.1-Å resolution, revealing a unique molecular architecture of the retinal-binding pocket. In particular, the structure of pSRII exhibits a largely unbent conformation of the retinal (as compared with bacteriorhodopsin and halorhodopsin), a hydroxyl group of Thr-204 in the vicinity of the Schiff base, and an outward orientation of the guanidinium group of Arg-72. Furthermore, the structure reveals a putative chloride ion that is coupled to the Schiff base by means of a hydrogen-bond network and a unique, positively charged surface patch for a probable interaction with HtrII. The high-resolution structure of pSRII provides a structural basis to elucidate the mechanisms of phototransduction and color tuning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The dependence of the rate on polymer mass was examined for the reaction of four sulfhydryl-directed poly(ethylene glycol) reagents with cysteine residues located in the lumen of the staphylococcal α-hemolysin pore. The logarithms of the apparent rate constants for a particular site in the lumen were proportional to N, the number of repeat units in a polymer chain. The proportionality constant was −(a/D)5/3, where a is the persistence length of the polymer (≈3.5Å) and D is the diameter of the pore. Despite some incongruencies with the assumptions of the derivation, the result suggests that the polymers partition into the lumen of the pore according to the simple scaling law of Daoud and de Gennes, cpore/csolution = exp(−N(a/D)5/3). Therefore, the measured reaction rates yield an estimate of the diameter of the pore and might be applied to determine the approximate dimensions of cavities within other similar proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
There have been increasing reports of acute coronary thrombotic events in patients with HIV. Although these clinical events have been attributed primarily to dyslipidemia associated with protease inhibitor therapy, autopsy studies in children with HIV suggest the presence of an underlying arteriopathy. This study demonstrates that the HIV envelope protein, gp120, activates human arterial smooth muscle cells to express tissue factor, the initiator of the coagulation cascade. The induction of tissue factor by gp120 is mediated by two biologically relevant coreceptors for HIV infection, CXCR4 and CCR5, and is also dependent on the presence of functional CD4. Induction of tissue factor by gp120 requires activation of mitogen-activating protein kinases, activation of protein kinase C, and generation of reactive oxygen species, signaling pathways that have protean effects on smooth muscle cell physiology. The activation of smooth muscle cells by gp120 may play an important role in the vascular, thrombotic, and inflammatory responses to HIV infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
MST1, mammalian STE20-like kinase 1, is a serine/threonine kinase that is cleaved and activated by caspases during apoptosis. MST1 is capable of inducing apoptotic morphological changes such as chromatin condensation upon overexpression. In this study, we show that MST1 contains two functional nuclear export signals (NESs) in the C-terminal domain, which is released from the N-terminal kinase domain upon caspase-mediated cleavage. Full-length MST1 is excluded from the nucleus and localized to the cytoplasm. However, either truncation of the C-terminal domain, point mutation of the two putative NESs, or treatment with leptomycin B, an inhibitor of the NES receptor, results in nuclear localization of MST1. Staurosporine treatment induces chromatin condensation, MST1 cleavage, and nuclear translocation. Staurosporine-induced chromatin condensation is partially inhibited by expressing a kinase-negative mutant of MST1, suggesting an important role of MST1 in this process. Significantly, MST1 is more efficient at inducing chromatin condensation when it is constitutively localized to the nucleus by mutation of its NESs. Moreover, inhibition of MST1 nuclear translocation by mutation of its cleavage sites reduces its ability to induce chromatin condensation. Taken together, these results suggest that truncation of the C-terminal domain of MST1 by caspases may result in translocation of MST1 into the nucleus, where it promotes chromatin condensation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Serine/arginine-rich proteins (SR proteins) are a family of nuclear factors that play important roles in both constitutive and regulated precursor mRNA splicing. The domain rich in arginine/serine (RS) repeats (RS domain) serves as both a nuclear and subnuclear localization signal. We previously identified an importin β family protein, transportin-SR2 (TRN-SR2), that specifically interacts with phosphorylated RS domains. A TRN-SR2 mutant deficient in Ran binding colocalizes with SR proteins in nuclear speckles, suggesting a role of TRN-SR2 in nuclear targeting of SR proteins. Using in vitro import assays, we here show that nuclear import of SR protein fusions requires cytosolic factors, and that the RS domain becomes phosphorylated in the import reaction. Reconstitution of SR protein import by using recombinant transport factors clearly demonstrates that TRN-SR2 is capable of targeting phosphorylated, but not unphosphorylated, SR proteins to the nucleus. Therefore, RS domain phosphorylation is critical for TRN-SR2-mediated nuclear import. Interestingly, we found that the RNA-binding activity of SR proteins confers temperature sensitivity to their nuclear import. Finally, we show that TRN-SR2 interacts with a nucleoporin and is targeted not only to the nuclear envelope but also to nuclear speckles in vitro. Thus, TRN-SR2 may perhaps escort SR protein cargoes to nuclear subdomains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Polarized radial arrays of cytoplasmic microtubules (MTs) with minus ends clustered at the cell center define the organization of the cytoplasm through interaction with microtubule motors bound to membrane organelles or chromosomes. It is generally assumed that the radial organization results from nucleation of MTs at the centrosome. However, radial MT array can also be attained through self-organization that requires the activity of a minus-end-directed MT motor, cytoplasmic dynein. In this study we examine the role of cytoplasmic dynein in the self-organization of a radial MT array in cytoplasmic fragments of fish melanophores lacking the centrosome. After activation of dynein motors bound to membrane-bound organelles, pigment granules, the fragments rapidly form polarized radial arrays of MTs and position pigment aggregates at their centers. We show that rearrangement of MTs in the cytoplasm is achieved through dynein-dependent MT nucleation. The radial pattern is generated by continuous disassembly and reassembly of MTs and concurrent minus-end-directed transport of pigment granules bearing the nucleation sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Selectins mediate rolling of leukocytes by rapid formation and dissociation of selectin–ligand bonds, which are assumed to require high mechanical strength to prevent premature dissociation by the forces applied in shear flow. This assumption is based largely on the observation that increasing wall shear stress increases only modestly the dissociation of transient leukocyte tethers on very low selectin densities. P-selectin binds to the N-terminal region of P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1), a mucin on leukocytes. Both PSGL-1 and P-selectin are extended homodimers. We perfused transfected cells expressing wild-type dimeric PSGL-1 or a chimeric monomeric form of PSGL-1 on immobilized dimeric or monomeric forms of P-selectin. Cells expressing dimeric or monomeric PSGL-1 tethered to P-selectin at equivalent rates. However, cells expressing dimeric PSGL-1 established more stable rolling adhesions, which were more shear resistant and exhibited less fluctuation in rolling velocities. On low densities of dimeric P-selectin, increasing wall shear stress more rapidly increased transient tether dissociation of cells expressing monomeric PSGL-1 than dimeric PSGL-1. Tether dissociation on low densities of monomeric P-selectin was even more shear sensitive. We conclude that dimerization of both PSGL-1 and P-selectin stabilizes tethering and rolling, probably by increasing rebinding within a bond cluster. Because transient tethers may have more than one bond, the mechanical strength of selectin–ligand bonds is likely to be lower than initially estimated. Tether strength may rely more on bond clusters to distribute applied force.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genotoxic stresses activate intracellular signaling molecules, which lead to growth arrest, DNA repair, and/or apoptosis. Among these molecules are the growth arrest and DNA damage protein 34 (GADD34) and the Src-related protein tyrosine kinase Lyn. Here, we report that these two proteins physically and functionally interact to regulate DNA damage-induced apoptosis. Multiple isolates of GADD34 and the related murine protein MyD116 were identified as binding partners of Lyn in a yeast two-hybrid screen. The specific interaction was confirmed by in vitro association of GADD34 with glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins containing the Src Homology 3 (SH3) domain of Lyn, as well as coimmunoprecipitation of GADD34 and Lyn from mammalian cells. GADD34 was tyrosine-phosphorylated in vivo in a Lyn-dependent manner. Lyn efficiently phosphorylated affinity-purified GADD34 in vitro. Lyn negatively regulated the proapoptotic function of GADD34 in a kinase-dependent manner. Expression of wild-type, but not kinase-inactive, Lyn weakened promotion of apoptosis by GADD34 following treatment with methyl-methanesulfonate or ionizing radiation in HEK293 and HeLa cells. In contrast, pretreatment of cells with the Src-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP1 strengthened promotion of apoptosis by GADD34. We propose that Lyn regulates the proapoptotic function of GADD34 by binding and phosphorylating it.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The primary hallmark of circadian clocks is their ability to entrain to environmental stimuli. The dominant, and therefore most physiologically important, entraining stimulus comes from environmental light cycles. Here we describe the establishment and characterization of a new cell line, designated Z3, which derives from zebrafish embryos and contains an independent, light-entrainable circadian oscillator. Using this system, we show distinct and differential light-dependent gene activation for several central clock components. In particular, activation of Per2 expression is shown to be strictly regulated and dependent on light. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Per1, Per2, and Per3 all have distinct responses to light–dark (LD) cycles and light-pulse treatments. We also show that Clock, Bmal1, and Bmal2 all oscillate under LD and dark–dark conditions with similar kinetics, but only Clock is significantly induced while initiating a light-induced circadian oscillation in Z3 cells that have never been exposed to a LD cycle. Finally, our results suggest that Per2 is responsible for establishing the phase of a circadian rhythm entraining to an alternate LD cycle. These findings not only underscore the complexity by which central clock genes are regulated, but also establishes the Z3 cells as an invaluable system for investigating the links between light-dependent gene activation and the signaling pathways responsible for vertebrate circadian rhythms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ser-Arg-rich (SR) proteins play numerous roles in spliceosome assembly and the regulation of splice-site selection. Whereas considerable attention has focused on the mechanistic details of SR protein activities, little is known concerning how these splicing regulators are controlled by the cell. Here we examined the subcellular localization of precursor mRNA splicing factors during early development of the nematode Ascaris lumbricoides. In the early embryo, before major zygotic gene activation, most SR proteins, along with RNA polymerase II, are localized in the cytoplasm. As development proceeds, we observe a significant decrease in the cytoplasmic levels of these factors and a concomitant increase in nuclear localization. In contrast, trimethylguanosine-capped small nuclear ribonucleoproteins are predominantly localized in the nucleus throughout this period. We previously showed that the phosphorylation state and activity of SR proteins are regulated during A. lumbricoides embryogenesis. These changes correlate with the onset of precursor mRNA splicing and zygotic transcription. Thus, a coordinate change in the subcellular localization of SR proteins and RNA polymerase II occurs at the transition from reliance on maternally deposited factors to embryonic expression. We propose that before zygotic gene activation, SR proteins and RNA polymerase II are stockpiled in the cytoplasm of early embryos, awaiting signals that lead to their activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Newly eclosed flies have wings that are highly folded and compact. Within an hour, each wing has expanded, the dorsal and ventral cuticular surfaces bonding to one another to form the mature wing. To initiate a dissection of this process, we present studies of two mutant phenotypes. First, the batone mutant blocks wing expansion, a behavior that is shown to have a mutant focus anterior to the wing in the embryonic fate map. Second, ectopic expression of protein kinase A catalytic subunit (PKAc) using certain GAL4 enhancer detector strains mimics the batone wing phenotype and also induces melanotic “tumors.” Surprisingly, these GAL4 strains express GAL4 in cells, which seem to be hemocytes, found between the dorsal and ventral surfaces of newly opened wings. Ectopic expression of Ricin A in these cells reduces their number and prevents bonding of the wing surfaces without preventing wing expansion. We propose that hemocytes are present in the wing to phagocytose apoptotic epithelial cells and to synthesize an extracellular matrix that bonds the two wing surfaces together. Hemocytes are known to form melanotic tumors either as part of an innate immune response or under other abnormal conditions, including evidently ectopic PKAc expression. Ectopic expression of PKAc in the presence of the batone mutant causes dominant lethality, suggesting a functional relationship. We propose that batone is required for the release of a hormone necessary for wing expansion and tissue remodeling by hemocytes in the wing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Claudins, the major transmembrane proteins of tight junctions, are members of the tetraspanin superfamily of proteins that mediate cellular adhesion and migration. Their functional importance is demonstrated by mutations in claudin genes that eliminate tight junctions in myelin and the testis, abolish Mg2+ resorption in the kidney, and cause autosomal recessive deafness. Here we report that two paralogs among 15 claudin genes in the zebrafish, Danio rerio, are expressed in the otic and lateral-line placodes at their earliest stages of development. Related claudins in amphibians and mammals are expressed in a similar manner in vertebrate primordia such as sensory placodes, branchial arches, and limb buds. We also show that the claudin gene family may have expanded along the chordate stem lineage from urochordates to gnathostomes, in parallel with the elaboration of vertebrate characters. We propose that tight junctions not only form barriers in mature epithelia, but also participate in vertebrate morphogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We investigated the basal phylogeny of eukaryotes through analyses of sequences from the ADP–ATP mitochondrial carrier, a transmembrane protein that is stable in function across eukaryote kingdoms. The ADP–ATP data strongly suggest the grouping of Plantae and Fungi to the exclusion of Metazoa. We implemented several procedures to avoid pervasive analytical artifacts such as erroneous alignment, random rooting, long branch attraction, and misidentification of noisy characters. The quest of an eukaryote tree that would be largely consistent across multiple loci might be essentially illusory because of differential lineage sorting, horizontal gene transfer, and the chimeric nature of early eukaryotes. Better understanding of these evolutionary parameters, requiring separate phylogenetic analyses of multiple independent loci, is fundamental for resolution of the modes of emergence and evolution of the major eukaryote lineages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The disparity between rates of morphological and molecular evolution remains a key paradox in evolutionary genetics. A proposed resolution to this paradox has been the conjecture that morphological evolution proceeds via diversification in regulatory loci, and that phenotypic evolution may correlate better with regulatory gene divergence. This conjecture can be tested by examining rates of regulatory gene evolution in species that display rapid morphological diversification within adaptive radiations. We have isolated homologues to the Arabidopsis APETALA3 (ASAP3/TM6) and APETALA1 (ASAP1) floral regulatory genes and the CHLOROPHYLL A/B BINDING PROTEIN9 (ASCAB9) photosynthetic structural gene from species in the Hawaiian silversword alliance, a premier example of plant adaptive radiation. We have compared rates of regulatory and structural gene evolution in the Hawaiian species to those in related species of North American tarweeds. Molecular evolutionary analyses indicate significant increases in nonsynonymous relative to synonymous nucleotide substitution rates in the ASAP3/TM6 and ASAP1 regulatory genes in the rapidly evolving Hawaiian species. By contrast, no general increase is evident in neutral mutation rates for these loci in the Hawaiian species. An increase in nonsynonymous relative to synonymous nucleotide substitution rate is also evident in the ASCAB9 structural gene in the Hawaiian species, but not to the extent displayed in the regulatory loci. The significantly accelerated rates of regulatory gene evolution in the Hawaiian species may reflect the influence of allopolyploidy or of selection and adaptive divergence. The analyses suggest that accelerated rates of regulatory gene evolution may accompany rapid morphological diversification in adaptive radiations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We explore the impact of a host genetic factor on heterosexual HIV epidemics by using a deterministic mathematical model. A protective allele unequally distributed across populations is exemplified in our models by the 32-bp deletion in the host-cell chemokine receptor CCR5, CCR5Δ32. Individuals homozygous for CCR5Δ32 are protected against HIV infection whereas those heterozygous for CCR5Δ32 have lower pre-AIDS viral loads and delayed progression to AIDS. CCR5Δ32 may limit HIV spread by decreasing the probability of both risk of infection and infectiousness. In this work, we characterize epidemic HIV within three dynamic subpopulations: CCR5/CCR5 (homozygous, wild type), CCR5/CCR5Δ32 (heterozygous), and CCR5Δ32/CCR5Δ32 (homozygous, mutant). Our results indicate that prevalence of HIV/AIDS is greater in populations lacking the CCR5Δ32 alleles (homozygous wild types only) as compared with populations that include people heterozygous or homozygous for CCR5Δ32. Also, we show that HIV can provide selective pressure for CCR5Δ32, increasing the frequency of this allele.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The small regulatory RNA SsrA has both tRNA and mRNA activities. It charges alanine and interacts with stalled ribosomes, allowing for translation to resume on the SsrA mRNA moiety. Hence, unfinished peptides carry a short amino acid tag, which serves as a signal for degradation by energy-dependent proteases. In SsrA-defective Escherichia coli strains, thermoinducible mutants of the transposable bacteriophage Mu (Mucts) are no longer induced at high temperature. Here we show that truncated forms of the key regulator of Mu lysogeny, the repressor Repc, accumulate in the absence of SsrA. These forms resemble C-terminally truncated dominant Mu repressor mutants previously isolated from Mucts, which are no longer thermoinducible and bind operator DNA with a high affinity even at high temperature. Using various ssrA alleles, we demonstrate the importance of SsrA charging on the ribosome for controlling Mu prophage repression. Our results thus substantiate the previous observation that trans-translation is not the only function of the SsrA. The alternative function of SsrA appears to influence the stability of Mu lysogens by controlling the translation of the C-terminal domain of the repressor protein, which modulates the affinity of the protein for DNA and its susceptibility to proteolytic degradation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mouse β-globin gene locus control region (LCR), located upstream of the β-globin gene cluster, is essential for the activated transcription of genes in the cluster. The LCR contains multiple binding sites for transactivators, including Maf-recognition elements (MAREs). However, little is known about the specific proteins that bind to these sites or the time at which they bind during erythroid differentiation. We have performed chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments to determine the recruitment of the erythroid-specific transactivator p45 NF-E2/MafK (p18 NF-E2) heterodimer and small Maf proteins to various regions in the globin gene locus before and after the induction of murine erythroleukemia (MEL) cell differentiation. We report that, before induction, the LCR is occupied by small Maf proteins, and, on erythroid maturation, the NF-E2 complex is recruited to the LCR and the active globin promoters, even though the promoters do not contain MAREs. This differentiation-coupled recruitment of NF-E2 complex correlates with a greater than 100-fold increase in β-major globin transcription, but is not associated with a significant change in locus-wide histone H3 acetylation. These findings suggest that the β-globin gene locus exists in a constitutively open chromatin conformation before terminal differentiation, and we speculate that recruitment of NF-E2 complex to the LCR and active promoters may be a rate-limiting step in the activation of β-globin gene expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In female mammals, up-regulation of Xist triggers X-chromosome inactivation in cis. Up-regulation is inhibited by sequences 3′ to Xist contained within the antisense locus, Tsix. Inhibition could depend on transcription of Tsix and/or on DNA elements therein. Here we test the role of Tsix transcription by augmenting the duration and strength of Tsix expression. We find that Tsix hypertranscription is sufficient to block Xist RNA accumulation in a cis-limited manner. We propose that Tsix transcription is necessary to restrict Xist activity on the future active X and, conversely, that Tsix repression is required for Xist RNA accumulation on the future inactive X. We also find that Tsix hypertranscription does not affect X-chromosome choice. Thus, choice is mediated by elements within Tsix that are independent of promoter activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The d, ash, and ln coat color mutations provide a unique model system for the study of vesicle transport in mammals. All three mutant loci encode genes that are required for the polarized transport of melanosomes, the specialized, pigment-containing organelles of melanocytes, to the neighboring keratinocytes and eventually into coat hairs. Genetic studies suggest that these genes function in the same or overlapping pathways and are supported by biochemical studies showing that d encodes an actin-based melanosome transport motor, MyoVa, whereas ash encodes Rab27a, a protein that localizes to the melanosome and is postulated to serve as the MyoVa receptor. Here we show that ln encodes melanophilin (Mlph), a previously undescribed protein with homology to Rab effectors such as granuphilin, Slp3-a, and rabphilin-3A. Like all of these effectors, Mlph possesses two Zn2+-binding CX2CX13,14CX2C motifs and a short aromatic-rich amino acid region that is critical for Rab binding. However, Mlph does not contain the two Ca2+-binding C2 domains found in these and other proteins involved in vesicle transport, suggesting that it represents a previously unrecognized class of Rab effectors. Collectively, our data show that Mlph is a critical component of the melanosome transport machinery and suggest that Mlph might function as part of a transport complex with Rab27a and MyoVa.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The nonrecombining portion of the human Y chromosome has proven to be a valuable tool for the study of population history. The maintenance of extended haplotypes characteristic of particular geographic regions, despite extensive admixture, allows complex demographic events to be deconstructed. In this study we report the frequencies of 23 Y-chromosome biallelic polymorphism haplotypes in 1,935 men from 49 Eurasian populations, with a particular focus on Central Asia. These haplotypes reveal traces of historical migrations, and provide an insight into the earliest patterns of settlement of anatomically modern humans on the Eurasian continent. Central Asia is revealed to be an important reservoir of genetic diversity, and the source of at least three major waves of migration leading into Europe, the Americas, and India. The genetic results are interpreted in the context of Eurasian linguistic patterns.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mice carrying one inactivated Fhit allele (Fhit +/− mice) are highly susceptible to tumor induction by N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine, with 100% of Fhit +/− mice exhibiting tumors of the forestomach/squamocolumnar junction vs. 25% of Fhit +/+ controls. In the current study a single N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine dose was administered to Fhit +/+, +/−, and −/− mice to compare carcinogen susceptibility in +/- and −/− Fhit-deficient mice. At 29 weeks after treatment, 7.7% of wild-type mice had tumors. Of the Fhit −/− mice 89.5% exhibited tumors (average 3.3 tumors/mouse) of the forestomach and squamocolumnar junction; half of the −/− mice had medium (2 mm diameter) to large (>2 mm) tumors. Of the Fhit +/− mice 78% exhibited tumors (average 2.4 tumors/mouse) and 22% showed medium to large tumors. Untreated Fhit-deficient mice have been observed for up to 2 years for spontaneous tumors. Fhit +/− mice (average age 21 mo) exhibit an average of 0.94 tumors of different types; Fhit −/− mice (average age 16 mo) also showed an array of tumors (average 0.76 tumor/mouse). The similar spontaneous and induced tumor spectra observed in mice with one or both Fhit alleles inactivated suggests that Fhit may be a one-hit tumor suppressor gene in some tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have been used to treat malignancies in humans with varying degrees of success. Progress has been hindered by the lack of suitable animal models, which would ideally consist of immunocompetent animals that are tolerant to tumor-associated antigens. Suitable models would allow the study and optimization of anti-tumor immunotherapy. We describe a murine model for the study of immunotherapy in colorectal cancers. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a cell-surface glycoprotein that is expressed on normal human intestinal epithelium and that is overexpressed in intestinal tumors. Mice that are transgenic for the human CEA gene (CEA.Tg) were crossed with multiple intestinal neoplasia (MIN) mice. MIN mice carry a germline APC mutation and are prone to the development of intestinal adenomas. The offspring from the MIN × CEA.Tg cross developed intestinal adenomas that were shown by immunohistochemistry to overexpress CEA. Pharmacokinetic studies by using 125I-labeled anti-CEA mAb PR1A3 showed rapid localization of antibody to tissues expressing CEA, especially the gastrointestinal tract. Macroscopic and microscopic radioautographic analysis of the gastrointestinal tracts from MIN/CEA.Tg mice indicated that PR1A3 targeted and was retained in tumors at levels higher than in areas of normal gut. These results demonstrate the utility of the MIN/CEA.Tg mouse as a model for the study of anti-CEA immunotherapy and, furthermore, demonstrate the efficiency of tumor localization by PR1A3.
DOC DONE!Abstract
γδ T lymphocytes in the intestinal intraepithelial layer (γδ IELs) are thought to contribute to immune competence, but their actual function remains poorly understood. Here we used DNA microarrays to study the gene expression profile of γδ IELs in a Yersinia infection system to better define their roles. To validate this approach, mesenteric lymph node CD8+ αβ T cells were similarly analyzed. The transcription profiles show that, whereas lymph node CD8+ αβ T cells must be activated to become cytotoxic effectors, γδ IELs are constitutively activated and appear to use different signaling cascades. Our data suggest that γδ IELs may respond efficiently to a broad range of pathological situations irrespective of their diverse T cell antigen receptor repertoire. γδ IELs may modulate local immune responses and participate in intestinal lipid metabolism, cholesterol homeostasis, and physiology. This study provides a strong basis for further investigations of the roles of these cells as well as mucosal immune defense in general.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We previously have reported that SRG3 is required for glucocorticoid (GC)-induced apoptosis in the S49.1 thymoma cell line. Activation of Notch1 was shown to induce GC resistance in thymocytes. However, the specific downstream target of Notch1 that confers GC resistance on thymocytes is currently unknown. We found that the expression level of SRG3 was critical in determining GC sensitivity in developing thymocytes. The expression of SRG3 also was down-regulated by the activated form of Notch1 (NotchIC). The promoter activity of the SRG3 gene also was down-regulated by NotchIC. Expression of transgenic SRG3 resulted in the restoration of GC sensitivity in thymocytes expressing transgenic Notch1. These results suggest that SRG3 is the downstream target of Notch1 in regulating GC sensitivity of thymocytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alzheimer's disease is a dementia that involves progressive deposition of amyloid β-protein (Aβ) in brain regions important for memory and cognition, followed by secondary inflammation that contributes to the neuropathologic process. Immunization with Aβ can reduce cerebral Aβ burden and consequent neuropathologic changes in the brains of mice transgenic for the β-amyloid precursor protein (APP). We found that transgenic expression of human APP in B6SJL mice, under the prion promoter, results in immune hyporesponsiveness to human Aβ, in terms of both antibody and cellular immune responses. The decreased antibody responses were related not to B cell tolerance but rather to the inability of Aβ-specific T cells to provide help for antibody production. The immune hyporesponsiveness could be overcome if T cell help was provided by coupling an Aβ B cell epitope to BSA. Our results suggest that expression of APP in transgenic mice is associated with an Aβ-specific impaired adaptive immune response that may contribute to the neuropathology. Moreover, humans with life-long elevation of brain and peripheral Aβ (e.g., patients with presenilin mutations or Down syndrome) could have reduced immune responses to Aβ vaccination.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antigen stimulation induces a rapid proliferation of B cells for expansion of specific B cell clones and their further differentiation into antibody-producing cells in germinal centers of T-dependent antigen-immunized mice. Previously, we identified a 210-kDa germinal center-associated nuclear protein (GANP) that is up-regulated selectively in germinal centers and carries an MCM-binding domain in the carboxyl-terminal side. In addition, here, we found a region (from 414 to 550 aa) in GANP molecule that is slightly similar to the known DNA-primase component p49. The recombinant GANP fragment covering this region synthesizes RNA primers for extension by DNA polymerase I with single-stranded DNA templates in vitro. GANP DNA-primase activity is controlled by phosphorylation at Ser502 that is induced by CD40-mediated signaling in vitro and in the germinal center B cells stimulated with antigen in vivo. Overexpression of ganp cDNA in Daudi B cells caused the increased DNA synthesis more than the levels of the mock-transfectants. These evidences suggested that the novel DNA-primase GANP is involved in regulation of cell proliferation of antigen-driven B cells in germinal centers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Engagement of adhesion molecules on monocytes and other myeloid leukocytes, which are effector cells of the innate immune system, not only tethers the leukocytes in place but also transmits outside-in signals that induce functional changes and alter gene expression. We found that a subset of mRNAs that are induced or amplified by adhesion of human monocytes to P-selectin via its surface ligand, P-selectin glycoprotein 1, have characteristics that suggest specialized translational control. One of these codes for urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (UPAR), a critical surface protease receptor and regulator of cell adhesion and migration. Although UPAR transcripts are induced by adhesion, rapid synthesis of the protein uses constitutive mRNA without a requirement for new transcription and is regulated by mammalian target of rapamycin, demonstrating new biologic roles for the signal-dependent translation pathway controlled by this intracellular kinase. The synthesis of UPAR in monocytic cells is also regulated by eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E, a second key translational checkpoint, and phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E is induced by adhesion of monocytes to P-selectin. Translationally controlled display of UPAR by monocytes confers recognition of the matrix protein, vitronectin. Adhesion-dependent signaling from the plasma membrane to translational checkpoints represents a previously unrecognized mechanism for regulating surface phenotype that may be particularly important for myeloid leukocytes and other cells that are specialized for rapid inflammatory and vascular responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vaccination of melanoma patients with tumor-specific antigens recognized by cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) produces significant tumor regressions in a minority of patients. These regressions appear to occur in the absence of massive CTL responses. To detect low-level responses, we resorted to antigenic stimulation of blood lymphocyte cultures in limiting dilution conditions, followed by tetramer analysis, cloning of the tetramer-positive cells, and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequence analysis of the CTL clones that showed strict specificity for the tumor antigen. A monoclonal CTL response against a MAGE-3 antigen was observed in a melanoma patient, who showed partial rejection of a large metastasis after treatment with a vaccine containing only the tumor-specific antigenic peptide. Tetramer analysis after in vitro restimulation indicated that about 1/40,000 postimmunization CD8+ blood lymphocytes were directed against the antigen. The same TCR was present in all of the positive microcultures. TCR evaluation carried out directly on blood lymphocytes by PCR amplification led to a similar frequency estimate after immunization, whereas the TCR was not found among 2.5 × 106 CD8+ lymphocytes collected before immunization. Our results prove unambiguously that vaccines containing only a tumor-specific antigenic peptide can elicit a CTL response. Even though they provide no information about the effector mechanisms responsible for the observed reduction in tumor mass in this patient, they would suggest that low-level CTL responses can initiate tumor rejection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Targeting of antigens to antigen-presenting cells (APCs) increases CD4+ T cell activation, and this observation can be exploited in the development of new vaccines. We have chosen an antigen-targeting approach in which we make recombinant antibodies (Abs) with T cell epitopes in their constant region and APC-specific variable regions. Three commonly used model epitopes, amino acids 110–120 of hemagglutinin, 323–339 of ovalbumin, and 46–61 of hen egg lysozyme, were introduced as loops in the CH1 domain of human IgG3. For all three epitopes, we show that the recombinant molecules are secreted from transfected cells. The epitopes are presented to specific T cells, and targeting to IgD on B cells in vitro enhances the presentation efficiency by 104 to 105 compared with the free peptide. After i.v. injection, the epitopes targeted to IgD are presented by splenic APCs to activate specific T cells, whereas little or no activation could be detected without targeting, even after the amount of antigen injected was increased 100-fold or more. Because a wide variety of T cell epitopes, in terms of both length and secondary structure, can be tolerated in loops in constant domains of Abs, the Ab constant region seems to have the intrinsic stability that is needed for this fusion molecule strategy. It might thus be possible to load the Ab with several different epitopes in loops in different domains and thereby make a targeted multisubunit vaccine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of CD8+ cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs) by antigen is triggered by the interaction of clonotypic αβ T cell receptors (TCRs) with antigenic peptides bound to MHC class I molecules (pMHC complexes). Fluorescent multimeric pMHC complexes have been shown to specifically stain antigen-specific CTLs by directly binding the TCR. In tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes from a melanoma patient we found a high frequency of tyrosinase368–376 peptide-specific cells as detected by IFN-γ ELISPOT, without detectable staining with the corresponding A2/peptide multimers. Surprisingly, these T cells were able to lyse tyrosinase368–376 peptide-pulsed target cells as efficiently as other specific T cells that were stained by multimers. Analysis of the staining patterns under different conditions of incubation time and temperature revealed that these results were explained by major differences in TCR-multimeric ligand interaction kinetics among the clones. Whereas no direct quantitative correlation between antigenic peptide concentration required for CTL effector functions and equilibrium multimer binding was observed interclonally, the latter was profoundly affected by the kinetics of TCR-ligand interaction. More importantly, our data indicate that similar levels of T cell activation can be achieved by independent CD8+ T cell clonotypes displaying different TCR/pMHC complex dissociation rates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cardiac muscle regeneration after injury is limited by “irreversible” cell cycle exit. Telomere shortening is one postulated basis for replicative senescence, via down-regulation of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT); telomere dysfunction also is associated with greater sensitivity to apoptosis. Forced expression of TERT in cardiac muscle in mice was sufficient to rescue telomerase activity and telomere length. Initially, the ventricle was hypercellular, with increased myocyte density and DNA synthesis. By 12 wk, cell cycling subsided; instead, cell enlargement (hypertrophy) was seen, without fibrosis or impaired function. Likewise, viral delivery of TERT was sufficient for hypertrophy in cultured cardiac myocytes. The TERT virus and transgene also conferred protection from apoptosis, in vitro and in vivo. Hyperplasia, hypertrophy, and survival all required active TERT and were not seen with a catalytically inactive mutation. Thus, TERT can delay cell cycle exit in cardiac muscle, induce hypertrophy in postmitotic cells, and promote cardiac myocyte survival.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent evidence places the FRAP/mTOR kinase downstream of the phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase/Akt-signaling pathway, which is up-regulated in multiple cancers because of loss of the PTEN tumor suppressor gene. We performed biological and biochemical studies to determine whether PTEN-deficient cancer cells are sensitive to pharmacologic inhibition of FRAP/mTOR by using the rapamycin derivative CCI-779. In vitro and in vivo studies of isogenic PTEN+/+ and PTEN−/− mouse cells as well as human cancer cells with defined PTEN status showed that the growth of PTEN null cells was blocked preferentially by pharmacologic FRAP/mTOR inhibition. Enhanced tumor growth caused by constitutive activation of Akt in PTEN+/+ cells also was reversed by CCI-779 treatment, indicating that FRAP/mTOR functions downstream of Akt in tumorigenesis. Loss of PTEN correlated with increased S6 kinase activity and phosphorylation of ribosomal S6 protein, providing evidence for activation of the FRAP/mTOR pathway in these cells. Differential sensitivity to CCI-779 was not explained by differences in biochemical blockade of the FRAP/mTOR pathway, because S6 phosphorylation was inhibited in sensitive and resistant cell lines. These results provide rationale for testing FRAP/mTOR inhibitors in PTEN null human cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
PTEN phosphatase acts as a tumor suppressor by negatively regulating the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway. It is unclear which downstream components of this pathway are necessary for oncogenic transformation. In this report we show that transformed cells of PTEN+/− mice have elevated levels of phosphorylated Akt and activated p70/S6 kinase associated with an increase in proliferation. Pharmacological inactivation of mTOR/RAFT/FRAP reduced neoplastic proliferation, tumor size, and p70/S6 kinase activity, but did not affect the status of Akt. These data suggest that p70/S6K and possibly other targets of mTOR contribute significantly to tumor development and that inhibition of these proteins may be therapeutic for cancer patients with deranged PI3K signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pro-protein convertases such as furin are expressed in many human tumor lines and primary tumors. Furin processes stromelysin-3, membrane type 1 matrix metalloproteinase (MMPs) involved in tumor cell invasiveness, as well as growth factors such as transforming growth factor β1. Evaluation of furin expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cells exhibiting different invasive ability showed that furin overexpression correlated with their respective invasiveness. The use of a selective furin inhibitor, alpha 1-PDX (PDX) was studied in three furin-expressing invasive HNSCC cell lines. The effects of PDX transfection were evaluated in vivo and in vitro to determine changes in the malignant phenotype. Transfection of HNSCC cell lines with PDX resulted in significant decrease or absence of tumorigenicity after s.c. inoculation into severe combined immunodeficient mice. Likewise, in vitro invasiveness was reduced ≈50%. The in vivo invasion assay using tracheal xenotransplants showed even more drastic reductions of the invasive ability of PDX-transfected cells (up to an 80% decrease). PDX-transfected cells did not invade or penetrated less into the tracheal wall tissues than their vector alone-transfected counterparts. In addition, the former cells showed a remarkable decrease in MMP-2 processing and activity. After PDX transfection the cells were less efficient in processing the tumor progression-associated furin substrates transforming growth factor β1 and pro-membrane type 1-MMP. These findings indicate that furin inhibition is a feasible approach to attenuate and even abolish certain critical attributes of the advanced malignant phenotype. Thus, furin should be considered as a promising target for cancer therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pancreatic cancer is an extremely aggressive neoplasm whose incidence equals its death rate. Despite intensive analysis, the genetic changes that mediate pancreatic cancer development and effective therapies for diminishing the morbidity associated with this disease remain unresolved. Through subtraction hybridization, we have identified a gene associated with induction of irreversible growth arrest, cancer reversion, and terminal differentiation in human melanoma cells, melanoma differentiation associated gene-7 (mda-7). Ectopic expression of mda-7 when using a recombinant adenovirus, Ad.mda-7, results in growth suppression and apoptosis in a broad spectrum of human cancers with diverse genetic defects, without exerting deleterious effects in normal human epithelial or fibroblast cells. Despite the apparently ubiquitous antitumor effects of mda-7, pancreatic carcinoma cells are remarkably refractory to Ad.mda-7 induced growth suppression and apoptosis. In contrast, the combination of Ad.mda-7 with antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, which target the K-ras oncogene (a gene that is mutated in 85 to 95% of pancreatic carcinomas), induces a dramatic suppression in growth and a decrease in cell viability by induction of apoptosis. In mutant K-ras pancreatic carcinoma cells, programmed cell death correlates with expression and an increase, respectively, in MDA-7 and BAX proteins and increases in the ratio of BAX to BCL-2 proteins. Moreover, transfection of mutant K-ras pancreatic carcinoma cells with an antisense K-ras expression vector and infection with Ad.mda-7 inhibits colony formation in vitro and tumorigenesis in vivo in nude mice. These intriguing observations demonstrate that a combinatorial approach, consisting of a cancer-specific apoptosis-inducing gene and an oncogene inactivation strategy, may provide the foundation for developing an effective therapy for pancreatic cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Therapy-related acute myeloid leukemias (t-AML) with translocations of the MLL gene are associated with the use of topoisomerase II inhibitors. We established the emergence of the malignant clone in a child who developed t-AML with a t(11;19) (q23;p13.3) during treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The MLL-ENL and the reciprocal ENL-MLL genomic fusions and their chimeric transcripts were characterized from samples collected at the time of t-AML diagnosis. We used PCR with patient-specific genomic primers to establish the emergence of the MLL-ENL fusion in serially obtained DNA samples. The MLL-ENL fusion was not detectable in bone marrow at the time of ALL diagnosis or after 2 months of chemotherapy (frequency <8.3 × 10−7 cells−1). The genomic fusion was first detected in bone marrow after 6 months of treatment at a frequency of one in 4,000 mononuclear bone marrow cells; the frequency was one in 70 cells after 20 months of therapy. At the first detection of MLL-ENL, the only topoisomerase II inhibitors the patient had received were one dose of daunorubicin and two doses of etoposide. The MLL-ENL fusion was not detectable in blood at the time of ALL diagnosis or after 0.7, 2, 8, 10, and 12 months of therapy but was detectable in blood at 16 months (one in 2.3 × 104 cells). Recombinogenic Alu sequences bracketed the breakpoints in both fusions. These data indicate that the malignant clone was not present before therapy, arose early during chemotherapy, and was able to proliferate even during exposure to antileukemic therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Attempts to repair myocardial infarcts by transplanting cardiomyocytes or skeletal myoblasts have failed to reconstitute healthy myocardium and coronary vessels integrated structurally and functionally with the remaining viable portion of the ventricular wall. The recently discovered growth and transdifferentiation potential of primitive bone marrow cells (BMC) prompted us, in an earlier study, to inject in the border zone of acute infarcts Lin− c-kitPOS BMC from syngeneic animals. These BMC differentiated into myocytes and vascular structures, ameliorating the function of the infarcted heart. Two critical determinants seem to be required for the transdifferentiation of primitive BMC: tissue damage and a high level of pluripotent cells. On this basis, we hypothesized here that BMC, mobilized by stem cell factor and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, would home to the infarcted region, replicate, differentiate, and ultimately promote myocardial repair. We report that, in the presence of an acute myocardial infarct, cytokine-mediated translocation of BMC resulted in a significant degree of tissue regeneration 27 days later. Cytokine-induced cardiac repair decreased mortality by 68%, infarct size by 40%, cavitary dilation by 26%, and diastolic stress by 70%. Ejection fraction progressively increased and hemodynamics significantly improved as a consequence of the formation of 15 × 106 new myocytes with arterioles and capillaries connected with the circulation of the unaffected ventricle. In conclusion, mobilization of primitive BMC by cytokines might offer a noninvasive therapeutic strategy for the regeneration of the myocardium lost as a result of ischemic heart disease and, perhaps, other forms of cardiac pathology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Development of effective chemopreventive agents against prostate cancer (CaP) for humans requires conclusive evidence of their efficacy in animal models that closely emulates human disease. The autochthonous transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) model, which spontaneously develops metastatic CaP, is one such model that mimics progressive forms of human disease. Employing male TRAMP mice, we show that oral infusion of a polyphenolic fraction isolated from green tea (GTP) at a human achievable dose (equivalent to six cups of green tea per day) significantly inhibits CaP development and increases survival in these mice. In two separate experiments, the cumulative incidence of palpable tumors at 32 weeks of age in 20 untreated mice was 100% (20 of 20). In these mice, 95% (19 of 20), 65% (13 of 20), 40% (8 of 20), and 25% (5 of 20) of the animals exhibited distant site metastases to lymph nodes, lungs, liver, and bone, respectively. However, 0.1% GTP (wt/vol) provided as the sole source of drinking fluid to TRAMP mice from 8 to 32 weeks of age resulted in (i) significant delay in primary tumor incidence and tumor burden as assessed sequentially by MRI, (ii) significant decrease in prostate (64%) and genitourinary (GU) (72%) weight, (iii) significant inhibition in serum insulin-like growth factor-I and restoration of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 levels, and (iv) marked reduction in the protein expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in the prostate compared with water-fed TRAMP mice. The striking observation of this study was that GTP infusion resulted in almost complete inhibition of distant site metastases. Furthermore, GTP consumption caused significant apoptosis of CaP cells, which possibly resulted in reduced dissemination of cancer cells, thereby causing inhibition of prostate cancer development, progression, and metastasis of CaP to distant organ sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Invasion and dissemination of well-differentiated carcinomas are often associated with loss of epithelial differentiation and gain of mesenchyme-like capabilities of the tumor cells at the invasive front. However, when comparing central areas of primary colorectal carcinomas and corresponding metastases, we again found the same differentiated epithelial growth patterns. These characteristic phenotypic changes were associated with distinct expression patterns of β-catenin, the main oncogenic protein in colorectal carcinomas, and E-cadherin. Nuclear β-catenin was found in dedifferentiated mesenchyme-like tumor cells at the invasive front, but strikingly, as in central areas of the primary tumors, was localized to the membrane and cytoplasm in polarized epithelial tumor cells in the metastases. This expression pattern was accompanied by changes in E-cadherin expression and proliferative activity. On the basis of these data, we postulate that an important driving force for progression of well-differentiated colorectal carcinomas is the specific environment, initiating two transient phenotypic transition processes by modulating intracellular β-catenin distribution in tumor cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A number of perturbations of B cells has been described in the setting of HIV infection; however, most remain poorly understood. To directly address the effect of HIV replication on B cell function, we investigated the capacity of B cells isolated from HIV-infected patients to respond to a variety of stimuli before and after reduction of viremia by effective antiretroviral therapy. B cells taken from patients with high levels of plasma viremia were defective in their proliferative responses to various stimuli. Viremia was also associated with the appearance of a subpopulation of B cells that expressed reduced levels of CD21. After fractionation into CD21high- and CD21low-expressing B cells, the CD21low fraction showed dramatically reduced proliferation in response to B cell stimuli and enhanced secretion of immunoglobulins when compared with the CD21high fraction. Electron microscopic analysis of each fraction revealed cells with plasmacytoid features in the CD21low B cell population but not in the CD21high fraction. These results indicate that HIV viremia induces the appearance of a subset of B cells whose function is impaired and which may be responsible for the hypergammaglobulinemia associated with HIV disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Abnormal angiogenesis accompanies many pathological conditions including cancer, inflammation, and eye diseases. Proliferative retinopathy because of retinal neovascularization is a leading cause of blindness in developed countries. Another major cause of irreversible vision loss is retinitis pigmentosa, a group of diseases characterized by progressive photoreceptor cell degeneration. Interestingly, anecdotal evidence has long suggested that proliferative diabetic retinopathy is rarely associated clinically with retinitis pigmentosa. Here we show that neonatal mice with classic inherited retinal degeneration (Pdebrd1/Pdebrd1) fail to mount reactive retinal neovascularization in a mouse model of oxygen-induced proliferative retinopathy. We also present a comparable human paradigm: spontaneous regression of retinal neovascularization associated with long-standing diabetes mellitus occurs when retinitis pigmentosa becomes clinically evident. Both mouse and human data indicate that reactive retinal neovascularization either fails to develop or regresses when the number of photoreceptor cells is markedly reduced. Our findings support the hypothesis that a functional mechanism underlying this anti-angiogenic state is failure of the predicted up-regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor, although other growth factors may also be involved. Preventive and therapeutic strategies against both proliferative and degenerative retinopathies may emerge from this work.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The FEZ1/LZTS1 gene maps to chromosome 8p22, a region that is frequently deleted in human tumors. Alterations in FEZ1/LZTS1 expression have been observed in esophageal, breast, and prostate cancers. Here, we show that introduction of FEZ1/LZTS1 into Fez1/Lzts1-negative cancer cells results in suppression of tumorigenicity and reduced cell growth with accumulation of cells at late S–G2/M stage of the cell cycle. Fez1/Lzts1 protein is hyperphosphorylated by cAMP-dependent kinase during cell-cycle progression. We found that Fez1/Lzts1 is associated with microtubule components and interacts with p34cdc2 at late S–G2/M stage in vivo. Present data show that FEZ1/LZTS1 inhibits cancer cell growth through regulation of mitosis, and that its alterations result in abnormal cell growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The nuclear receptor coactivators participate in the transcriptional activation of specific genes by nuclear receptors. In this study, we report the isolation of a nuclear receptor coactivator-interacting protein from a human liver cDNA library by using the coactivator peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-interacting protein (PRIP) (ASC2/AIB3/RAP250/NRC/TRBP) as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Human PRIP-interacting protein cDNA has an ORF of 2,556 nucleotides, encodes a protein with 852 amino acids, and contains a 9-aa VVDAFCGVG methyltransferase motif I and an invariant GXXGXXI segment found in K-homology motifs of many RNA-binding proteins. The gene encoding this protein, designated PRIP-interacting protein with methyltransferase domain (PIMT), is localized on chromosome 8q11 and spans more than 40 kb. PIMT mRNA is ubiquitously expressed, with a high level of expression in heart, skeletal muscle, kidney, liver, and placenta. Using the immunofluorescence localization method, we found that PIMT and PRIP proteins appear colocalized in the nucleus. PIMT strongly interacts with PRIP under in vitro and in vivo conditions, and the PIMT-binding site on PRIP is in the region encompassing amino acids 773–927. PIMT binds S-adenosyl-l-methionine, the methyl donor for methyltransfer reaction, and it also binds RNA, suggesting that it is a putative RNA methyltransferase. PIMT enhances the transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ and retinoid-X-receptor α, which is further stimulated by coexpression of PRIP, implying that PIMT is a component of nuclear receptor signal transduction apparatus acting through PRIP. Definitive identification of the specific substrate of PIMT and the role of this RNA-binding protein in transcriptional regulation remain to be determined.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The effect of a kinase inhibitor Go6796 on growth of epidermal growth factor (EGF)-stimulated estrogen receptor negative (ER−) breast cancer cells in vivo and role of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) on tumorogenesis have been investigated. This was studied in an animal model by implanting ER− mouse mammary epithelial tumor cells (CSMLO) in syngeneic A-J mice. (i) Local administration of Go6976 an inhibitor of protein kinases C alpha and beta inhibited growth of tumors and caused extensive necrotic degeneration and regression of the tumors without causing any microscopically detectable damage to the vital organs liver and lung. (ii) Stable expression of dominant-negative mutants of the beta subunit (dnIkkβ) of the inhibitory kappa B (IκB) kinase (dnIkk) that selectively blocked activation of NF-κB caused loss of tumorigenic potential of CSMLO cells. Stable expression of dnIkkβ also blocked phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced activation of NF-κB and overexpression of cyclin D1, concomitantly with the loss or reduced tumorigenic potential of these cells. Thus, results from in vivo and in vitro experiments strongly suggest the involvement of NF-κB in ER− mammary epithelial cell-mediated tumorigenesis. We propose that blocking NF-κB activation not only inhibits cell proliferation, but also antagonizes the antiapoptotic role of this transcription factor in ER− breast cancer cells. Thus, NF-κB is a potential target for therapy of EGFR family receptor-overexpressing ER− breast cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is active as a dimer of two identical subunits. Each subunit has an amino-terminal oxygenase domain that binds the substrate l-Arg and the cofactors heme and tetrahydrobiopterin and a carboxyl-terminal reductase domain that binds FMN, FAD, and NADPH. We previously demonstrated that a subdomain in the oxygenase domain encoded by exons 8 and 9 is important for dimer formation and NO synthesis. Further, we identified Trp-260, Asn-261, Tyr-267, and Asp-280 as key residues in that subdomain. In this study, using an Escherichia coli expression system, we produced, purified, and characterized wild-type iNOS and iNOS-Ala mutants. Using H2O2-supported oxidation of Nω-hydroxy-l-Arg, we demonstrate that the iNOS mutants' inabilities to synthesize NO are due to selective defects in the oxygenase domain activity. Detailed characterization of the Asp-280–Ala mutant revealed that it retains a functional reductase domain, as measured by its ability to reduce cytochrome c. Gel permeation chromatography confirmed that the Asp-280–Ala mutant exists as a dimer, but, in contrast to wild-type iNOS, urea-generated monomers of the mutant fail to reassociate into dimers when incubated with l-Arg and tetrahydrobiopterin, suggesting inadequate subunit interaction. Spectral analysis reveals that the Asp-280–Ala mutant does not bind l-Arg. This indicates that, in addition to dimerization, proper subunit interaction is required for substrate binding. These data, by defining a critical role for Asp-280 in substrate binding and subunit interactions, give insights into the mechanisms of regulation of iNOS activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The t(8;21) is one of the most frequent chromosomal abnormalities associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The translocation, which involves the AML1 gene on chromosome 21 and the ETO gene on chromosome 8, generates an AML1-ETO fusion transcription factor. To examine the effect of the AML1-ETO fusion protein on leukemogenesis, we made transgenic mice in which expression of AML1-ETO is under the control of the human MRP8 promoter (hMRP8-AML1-ETO). AML1-ETO is specifically expressed in myeloid cells, including common myeloid progenitors of hMRP8-AML1-ETO transgenic mice. The transgenic mice were healthy during their life spans, suggesting that AML1-ETO alone is not sufficient for leukemogenesis. However, after treatment of newborn hMRP8-AML1-ETO transgenic mice and their wild-type littermates with a strong DNA-alkylating mutagen, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, 55% of transgenic mice developed AML and the other 45% of transgenic mice and all of the wild-type littermates developed acute T lymphoblastic leukemia. Our results provide direct evidence that AML1-ETO is critical for causing myeloid leukemia, but one or more additional mutations are required for leukemogenesis. The hMRP8-AML1-ETO-transgenic mice provide an excellent model that can be used to isolate additional genetic events and to further understand the molecular pathogenesis of AML1-ETO-related leukemia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA methylation has been linked to gene silencing in cancer. Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) and myeloma are lymphoid malignancies that arise from terminally differentiated B cells. Interestingly, PEL do not express immunoglobulins or most B lineage-specific genes. The B cell-specific B29 (Igβ/CD79b) gene is silenced in PEL and some myelomas but is expressed in other normal and malignant B cells. B29 expression was reactivated in PEL by demethylating and histone deacetylase inhibiting treatments. Bisulfite sequencing revealed two types of DNA methylation in silenced B29 promoters: at conventional CpG and at CC(A/T)GG B29 promoter sites. The pattern of methylated CpG (mCpG) and CmC(A/T)GG B29 promoter methylation observed was similar to that recently reported for epigenetic silencing of an integrated retrovirus. Methylation of CmC(A/T)GG sites in the B29 promoter significantly repressed in vivo transcriptional activity. Also, methylation of a central conserved CmCTGG B29 promoter site blocked the binding of early B cell factor. This methylated motif formed DNA–protein complexes with nuclear extracts from all cell types examined. Therefore, CmC(A/T)GG methylation may represent an important type of epigenetic marker on mammalian DNA that impacts transcription by altering DNA–protein complex formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Earlier studies have shown that the d120 mutant of herpes simplex virus 1, which lacks both copies of the α4 gene, induces apoptosis in all cell lines tested. In some cell lines d120-induced apoptosis, manifested by the release of cytochrome c, activation of caspase 3, and fragmentation of cellular DNA, is blocked by the overexpression of Bcl-2. In these cells viral protein kinase US3 delivered in trans blocks apoptosis induced by the mutant virus at a premitochondrial stage. We report that the US3 protein kinase targets the pro-apoptotic BAD member of the Bcl-2 family. Specifically, the US3 protein kinase mediates a posttranslational modification of BAD and blocks its cleavage, which is reported to activate apoptosis. Thus, US3 protein kinase is the sole viral protein required to block activation of caspase 3, prevent cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, and block fragmentation of cellular DNA induced by BAD.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pathogens are exposed to different temperatures during an infection cycle and must regulate gene expression accordingly. However, the extent to which virulent bacteria alter gene expression in response to temperatures encountered in the host is unknown. Group A Streptococcus (GAS) is a human-specific pathogen that is responsible for illnesses ranging from superficial skin infections and pharyngitis to severe invasive infections such as necrotizing fasciitis and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome. GAS survives and multiplies at different temperatures during human infection. DNA microarray analysis was used to investigate the influence of temperature on global gene expression in a serotype M1 strain grown to exponential phase at 29°C and 37°C. Approximately 9% of genes were differentially expressed by at least 1.5-fold at 29°C relative to 37°C, including genes encoding transporter proteins, proteins involved in iron homeostasis, transcriptional regulators, phage-associated proteins, and proteins with no known homologue. Relatively few known virulence genes were differentially expressed at this threshold. However, transcription of 28 genes encoding proteins with predicted secretion signal sequences was altered, indicating that growth temperature substantially influences the extracellular proteome. TaqMan real-time reverse transcription–PCR assays confirmed the microarray data. We also discovered that transcription of genes encoding hemolysins, and proteins with inferred roles in iron regulation, transport, and homeostasis, was influenced by growth at 40°C. Thus, GAS profoundly alters gene expression in response to temperature. The data delineate the spectrum of temperature-regulated gene expression in an important human pathogen and provide many unforeseen lines of pathogenesis investigation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The fungus Cryptococcus neoformans is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with impaired CD4+ T cell function, particularly those with AIDS. To identify cryptococcal antigens that could serve as vaccine candidates by stimulating T cell responses, C. neoformans-reactive CD4+ T cell hybridomas were generated by immunization of C57BL/6 mice and fusion of splenocytes with thymoma cells. The antigen that stimulated one of the hybridomas, designated P1D6, to produce IL-2 was purified to homogeneity by sequential anion exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and SDS/PAGE. Based on its apparent molecular mass of 98 kDa and mannosylation, the antigen of interest was named MP98. MP98 was N terminal-sequenced, and the gene encoding the protein was cloned and sequenced. Recombinant MP98, expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, stimulated P1D6 to produce IL-2. Analysis of the derived 458-aa sequence of MP98 reveals an N-terminal cleavable signal sequence, a polysaccharide deacetylase domain found in fungal chitin deacetylases, and a serine/threonine-rich C-terminal region. Overall, there were 103 serine/threonine residues serving as potential O-linked glycosylation sites as well as 12 possible N-linked glycosylation sites. Thus, a C. neoformans mannoprotein has been characterized that stimulates T cell responses and has molecular properties of a chitin deacetylase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Depolarization of rat hippocampal neurons with a high concentration of external potassium induces a thickening of postsynaptic densities (PSDs) within 1.5–3 min. After high-potassium treatment, PSDs thicken 2.1-fold in cultured neurons and 1.4-fold in hippocampal slices compared with their respective controls. Thin-section immunoelectron microscopy of hippocampal cultures indicates that at least part of the observed thickening of PSDs can be accounted for by an accumulation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) on their cytoplasmic faces. Indeed, PSD-associated gold label for CaMKII increases 5-fold after depolarization with potassium. The effects of high-potassium treatment on the composition and structure of the PSDs are mimicked by direct application of glutamate. In cultures, glutamate-induced thickening of PSDs and the accumulation of CaMKII on PSDs are reversed within 5 min of removal of glutamate and Ca2+ from the extracellular medium. These results suggest that PSDs are dynamic structures whose thickness and composition are subject to rapid and transient changes during synaptic activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Increasing evidence suggests that apoptosis may be the underlying cell death mechanism in the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. Because the inhibition of caspases provides only partial protection in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine/1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPTP/MPP+) model of Parkinson's disease, we investigated the role of the proapoptotic c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling cascade in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells in vitro and in mice in vivo. MPTP/MPP+ led to the sequential phosphorylation and activation of JNK kinase (MKK4), JNK, and c-Jun, the activation of caspases, and apoptosis. In mice, adenoviral gene transfer of the JNK binding domain of JNK-interacting protein-1 (a scaffold protein and inhibitor of JNK) inhibited this cascade downstream of MKK4 phosphorylation, blocked JNK, c-Jun, and caspase activation, the death of dopaminergic neurons, and the loss of catecholamines in the striatum. Furthermore, the gene transfer resulted in behavioral benefit. Therefore, inhibition of the JNK pathway offers a new treatment strategy for Parkinson's disease that blocks the death signaling pathway upstream of the execution of apoptosis in dopaminergic neurons, providing a therapeutic advantage over the direct inhibition of caspases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Age-related degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) contributes to cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome. With aging, the partial trisomy 16 (Ts65Dn) mouse model of Down's syndrome exhibited reductions in BFCN size and number and regressive changes in the hippocampal terminal fields of these neurons with respect to diploid controls. The changes were associated with significantly impaired retrograde transport of nerve growth factor (NGF) from the hippocampus to the basal forebrain. Intracerebroventricular NGF infusion reversed well established abnormalities in BFCN size and number and restored the deficit in cholinergic innervation. The findings are evidence that even BFCNs chronically deprived of endogenous NGF respond to an intervention that compensates for defective retrograde transport. We suggest that age-related cholinergic neurodegeneration may be a treatable disorder of failed retrograde NGF signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Drosophila peripheral nerves, similar structurally to the peripheral nerves of mammals, comprise a layer of axons and inner glia, surrounded by an outer perineurial glial layer. Although it is well established that intercellular communication occurs among cells within peripheral nerves, the signaling pathways used and the effects of this signaling on nerve structure and function remain incompletely understood. Here we demonstrate with genetic methods that the Drosophila peripheral nerve is a favorable system for the study of intercellular signaling. We show that growth of the perineurial glia is controlled by interactions among five genes: ine, which encodes a putative neurotransmitter transporter; eag, which encodes a potassium channel; push, which encodes a large, Zn2+-finger-containing protein; amn, which encodes a putative neuropeptide related to the pituitary adenylate cyclase activator peptide; and NF1, the Drosophila ortholog of the human gene responsible for type 1 neurofibromatosis. In other Drosophila systems, push and NF1 are required for signaling pathways mediated by Amn or the pituitary adenylate cyclase activator peptide. Our results support a model in which the Amn neuropeptide, acting through Push and NF1, inhibits perineurial glial growth, whereas the substrate neurotransmitter of Ine promotes perineurial glial growth. Defective intercellular signaling within peripheral nerves might underlie the formation of neurofibromas, the hallmark of neurofibromatosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Motor stereotypies are abnormally repetitive behaviors that can develop with excessive dopaminergic stimulation and are features of some neurologic disorders. To investigate the mechanisms required for the induction of stereotypy, we examined the responses of dopamine-deficient (DD) mice to increasing doses of the dopamine precursor l-DOPA. DD mice lack the ability to synthesize dopamine (DA) specifically in dopaminergic neurons yet exhibit robust hyperlocomotion relative to wild-type (WT) mice when treated with l-DOPA, which restores striatal DA tissue content to ≈10% of WT levels. To further elevate brain DA content in DD mice, we administered the peripheral l-amino acid decarboxylase inhibitor carbidopa along with l-DOPA (C/l-DOPA). When striatal DA levels reached >50% of WT levels, a transition from hyperlocomotion to intense, focused stereotypy was observed that was correlated with an induction of c-fos mRNA in the ventrolateral and central striatum as well as the somatosensory cortex. WT mice were unaffected by C/l-DOPA treatments. A D1, but not a D2, receptor antagonist attenuated both the C/l-DOPA-induced stereotypy and the c-fos induction. Consistent with these results, stereotypy could be induced in DD mice by a D1, but not by a D2, receptor agonist, with neither agonist inducing stereotypy in WT mice. Intrastriatal injection of a D1 receptor antagonist ameliorated the stereotypy and c-fos induction by C/l-DOPA. These results indicate that activation of D1 receptors on a specific population of striatal neurons is required for the induction of stereotypy in DD mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A hybrid circuit of a semiconductor chip and synaptically connected neurons was implemented and characterized. Individual nerve cells from the snail Lymnaea stagnalis were immobilized on a silicon chip by microscopic picket fences of polyimide. The cells formed a network with electrical synapses after outgrowth in brain conditioned medium. Pairs of neurons were electronically interfaced for noninvasive stimulation and recording. Voltage pulses were applied to a capacitive stimulator on the chip to excite the attached neuron. Signals were transmitted in the neuronal net and elicited an action potential in a second neuron. The postsynaptic excitation modulated the current of a transistor on the chip. The implementation of the silicon-neuron-neuron-silicon circuit constitutes a proof-of-principle experiment for the development of neuroelectronic systems to be used in studies on neuronal signal processing, neurocomputation, and neuroprosthetics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
This study aimed at determining whether audiovisual training without linguistic material has a remediating effect on reading skills and central auditory processing in dyslexic children. It was found that this training resulted in plastic changes in the auditory cortex, indexed by enhanced electrophysiological mismatch negativity and faster reaction times to sound changes. Importantly, these changes were accompanied by improvement in reading skills. The results indicate that reading difficulties can be ameliorated by special training programs and, further, that the training effects can be observed in brain activity. Moreover, the fact that the present training effects were obtained by using a program including no linguistic material indicates that dyslexia is at least partly based on a general auditory perceptual deficit.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nitroxyl anion (NO−) is the one-electron reduction product of nitric oxide (NO⋅) and is enzymatically generated by NO synthase in vitro. The physiologic activity and mechanism of action of NO− in vivo remains unknown. The NO− generator Angeli's salt (AS, Na2N2O3) was administered to conscious chronically instrumented dogs, and pressure–dimension analysis was used to discriminate contractile from peripheral vascular responses. AS rapidly enhanced left ventricular contractility and concomitantly lowered cardiac preload volume and diastolic pressure (venodilation) without a change in arterial resistance. There were no associated changes in arterial or venous plasma cGMP. The inotropic response was similar despite reflex blockade with hexamethonium or volume reexpansion, indicating its independence from baroreflex stimulation. However, reflex activation did play a major role in the selective venodilation observed under basal conditions. These data contrasted with the pure NO donor diethylamine/NO, which induced a negligible inotropic response and a more balanced veno/arterial dilation. AS-induced positive inotropy, but not systemic vasodilatation, was highly redox-sensitive, being virtually inhibited by coinfusion of N-acetyl-l-cysteine. Cardiac inotropic signaling by NO− was mediated by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), as treatment with the selective CGRP-receptor antagonist CGRP(8–37) prevented this effect but not systemic vasodilation. Thus, NO− is a redox-sensitive positive inotrope with selective venodilator action, whose cardiac effects are mediated by CGRP-receptor stimulation. This fact is evidence linking NO− to redox-sensitive cardiac contractile modulation by nonadrenergic/noncholinergic peptide signaling. Given its cardiac and vascular properties, NO− may prove useful for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases characterized by cardiac depression and elevated venous filling pressures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The levels of 8-oxo-2-deoxyguanosine (oxo8dG) in DNA isolated from tissues of rodents (male F344 rats, male B6D2F1 mice, male C57BL/6 mice, and female C57BL/6 mice) of various ages were measured using sodium iodide to prevent oxidative damage to DNA during DNA isolation. Oxo8dG was measured in nuclear DNA (nDNA) isolated from liver, heart, brain, kidney, skeletal muscle, and spleen and in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) isolated from liver. We observed a significant increase in oxo8dG levels in nDNA with age in all tissues and strains of rodents studied. The age-related increase in oxo8dG in nDNA from old mice was shown not to the result of the tissue's reduced ability to remove the oxo8dG lesion. Rather, the increase in oxo8dG levels appears to arise from an age-related increase in the sensitivity of these tissues to oxidative stress. We also observed an age-related increase in oxo8dG in mtDNA isolated from the livers of the rats and mice. Dietary restriction, which is known to retard aging and increase the lifespan of rodents, was shown to significantly reduce the age-related accumulation of oxo8dG levels in nDNA in all tissues of male B6D23F1 mice and in most tissues of male F344 rats. Our study also showed that dietary restriction prevented the age-related increase in oxo8dG levels in mtDNA isolated from the livers of both rats and mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir 2.3 is specifically targeted and expressed on the basolateral membrane of certain renal epithelial cells. In the present study, the structural basis for polarized targeting was elucidated. Deletion of a unique COOH-terminal domain produced channels that were mistargeted to the apical membrane, consistent with the removal of a basolateral membrane-sorting signal. By characterizing a series of progressively smaller truncation mutants, an essential targeting signal was defined (residues 431–442) within a domain that juxtaposes or overlaps with a type I PDZ binding motif (442). Fusion of the COOH-terminal structure onto CD4 was sufficient to change a random membrane-trafficking and expression pattern into a basolateral membrane one. Using metabolic labeling and pulse–chase and surface immunoprecipitation, we found that CD4-Kir2.3 COOH-terminal chimeras were rapidly and directly targeted to the basolateral membrane, consistent with a sorting signal that is processed in the biosynthetic pathway. Collectively, the data indicate that the basolateral sorting determinant in Kir 2.3 is composed of a unique arrangement of trafficking motifs, containing tandem, conceivably overlapping, biosynthetic targeting and PDZ-based signals. The previously unrecognized domain corresponds to a highly degenerate structure within the Kir channel family, raising the possibility that the extreme COOH terminus of Kir channels may differentially coordinate membrane targeting of different channel isoforms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pollen tube growth and reorientation is a prerequisite for fertilization and seed formation. Here we report imaging of cAMP distribution in living pollen tubes microinjected with the protein kinase A-derived fluorosensor. Growing tubes revealed a uniform distribution of cAMP with a resting concentration of ≈100–150 nM. Modulators of adenylyl cyclase (AC), forskolin, and dideoxyadenosine could alter these values. Transient elevations in the apical region could be correlated with changes in the tube-growth axis, suggesting a role for cAMP in polarized growth. Changes in cAMP arise through the activity of a putative AC identified in pollen. This signaling protein shows homology to functional motifs in fungal AC. Expression of the cDNA in Escherichia coli resulted in cAMP increase and complemented a catabolic defect in the fermentation of carbohydrates caused by the absence of cAMP in a cyaA mutant. Antisense assays performed with oligodeoxynucleotide probes directed against conserved motifs perturbed tip growth, suggesting that modulation of cAMP concentration is vital for tip growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cytokinins are a class of plant-specific hormones that play a central role during the cell cycle and influence numerous developmental programs. Because of the lack of biosynthetic and signaling mutants, the regulatory roles of cytokinins are not well understood. We genetically engineered cytokinin oxidase expression in transgenic tobacco plants to reduce their endogenous cytokinin content. Cytokinin-deficient plants developed stunted shoots with smaller apical meristems. The plastochrone was prolonged, and leaf cell production was only 3–4% that of wild type, indicating an absolute requirement of cytokinins for leaf growth. In contrast, root meristems of transgenic plants were enlarged and gave rise to faster growing and more branched roots. These results suggest that cytokinins are an important regulatory factor of plant meristem activity and morphogenesis, with opposing roles in shoots and roots.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Resistance gene Cf-9 of cultivated tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) confers recognition of the AVR9 elicitor protein of the fungal pathogen Cladosporium fulvum. The Cf-9 locus, containing Cf-9 and four homologs (Hcr9s), originates from Lycopersicon pimpinellifolium (Lp). We examined naturally occurring polymorphism in Hcr9s that confer AVR9 recognition in the Lp population. AVR9 recognition occurs frequently throughout this population. In addition to Cf-9, we discovered a second gene in Lp, designated 9DC, which also confers AVR9 recognition. Compared with Cf-9, 9DC is more polymorphic, occurs more frequently, and is more widely spread throughout the Lp population, suggesting that 9DC is older than Cf-9. The sequences of Cf-9 and 9DC suggest that Cf-9 evolved from 9DC by intragenic recombination between 9DC and another Hcr9. The fact that the 9DC and Cf-9 proteins differ in 61 aa residues, and both mediate recognition of AVR9, shows that in nature Hcr9 proteins with the same recognitional specificity can vary significantly.
DOC DONE!Abstract
At least three transport systems function in targeting nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins to the chloroplast thylakoid membrane. One of these systems requires a thylakoid pH gradient and is named the ΔpH-dependent protein transport system. A similar ΔpH export system of Escherichia coli contains four components, twin arginine translocation A (TatA), TatB, TatC, and TatE. TatC is a major component of the ΔpH-dependent protein transporter in E. coli and functions in the translocation of tightly folded proteins across membranes. We have isolated four transposon-inserted albino mutants named albino and pale green 2 (apg2) from Arabidopsis thaliana and showed that the transposons were inserted into different sites of a single gene. The APG2 gene product (named cpTatC) has sequence similarity with bacterial TatC and contains six putative transmembrane domains, including bacterial TatC proteins and a transit peptide in its N terminus. apg2 mutants showed albino phenotypes and could not grow in soil. The apg2 plastids were highly vacuolated, lacked internal membrane structures and lamellae of the thylakoid membrane, and contained many densely stained globule structures, like undifferentiated proplastids. Immunoblot analysis detected no thylakoid membrane proteins such as D1, light-harvesting complex, and OE23 in apg2 plastids, whereas soluble proteins such as rubisco large and small subunits were not decreased. These results indicate an essential role of cpTatC in chloroplast development, especially in thylakoid membrane formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Substantial evidence supports the familial aggregation of exceptional longevity. The existence of rare families demonstrating clustering for this phenotype suggests that a genetic etiology may be an important component. Previous attempts at localizing loci predisposing for exceptional longevity have been limited to association studies of candidate gene polymorphisms. In this study, a genome-wide scan for such predisposing loci was conducted by using 308 individuals belonging to 137 sibships demonstrating exceptional longevity. By using nonparametric analysis, significant evidence for linkage was noted for chromosome 4 at D4S1564 with a MLS of 3.65 (P = 0.044). The analysis was corroborated by a parametric analysis (P = 0.052). These linkage results indicate the likelihood that there exists a gene, or genes, that exerts a substantial influence on the ability to achieve exceptional old age. Identification of the genes in humans that allow certain individuals to live to extreme old age should lead to insights on cellular pathways that are important to the aging process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent progress in black hole research is illustrated by three examples. We discuss the observational challenges that were met to show that a supermassive black hole exists at the center of our galaxy. Stellar-size black holes have been studied in x-ray binaries and microquasars. Finally, numerical simulations have become possible for the merger of black hole binaries.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The theory of random matrices has far-reaching applications in many different areas of mathematics and physics. In this note, we briefly describe the state of the theory and two of the perhaps most surprising appearances of random matrices, namely in the theory of quantum chaos and in the theory of prime numbers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Extensive terahertz laser vibration-rotation-tunneling spectra and mid-IR laser spectra have been compiled for several isotopomers of small (dimer through hexamer) water clusters. These data, in conjunction with new theoretical advances, quantify the structures, force fields, dipole moments, and hydrogen bond rearrangement dynamics in these clusters. This new information permits us to systematically untangle the intricacies associated with cooperative hydrogen bonding and promises to lead to a more complete molecular description of the liquid and solid phases of water, including an accurate universal force field.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The relationship between the three-dimensional structures of oligosaccharides and polysaccharides and their biological properties has been the focus of many recent studies. The overall conformation of an oligosaccharide depends primarily on the orientation of the torsion angles (φ, ψ, and ω) between glycosyl residues. Numerous experimental studies have shown that in glucopyranosides the ω-torsion angle (O6-C6-C5-O5) displays a preference for gauche orientations, in disagreement with predictions based on gas-phase quantum mechanics calculations. In contrast, the ω-angle in galactopyranosides displays a high proportion of the anti-orientation. For oligosaccharides containing glycosidic linkages at the 6-position (1→6 linked), variations in rotamer population have a direct effect on the oligosaccharides' structure and function, and yet the physical origin of these conformational preferences remains unclear. Although it is generally recognized that the gauche effect in carbohydrates is a solvent-dependent phenomenon, the mechanism through which solvent induces the gauche preference is not understood. In the present work, quantum mechanics and solvated molecular dynamics calculations were performed on two representative carbohydrates, methyl α-d-glucopyranoside and methyl α-d-galactopyranoside. We show that correct reproduction of the experimental rotamer distributions about the ω-angles is obtained only after explicit water is included in the molecular dynamics simulations. The primary role of the water appears to be to disrupt the hydrogen bonding within the carbohydrate, thereby allowing the rotamer populations to be determined by internal electronic and steric repulsions between the oxygen atoms. The results reported here provide a quantitative explanation of the conformational behavior of (1→6)-linked carbohydrates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The polytopic ligand 1 contains three different metal ion binding subunits forming two substructures that code for the self-assembly of two different coordination structures (helicate and grid type) under metal ion complexation. Reaction with Cu(II) and Zn(II) ions generates the coordinatively unsaturated architectures 8 and 9 resulting from the formation of two double helicate arrangements. Their crystal structure has been determined by x-ray diffraction. These results show that the double helical motif is expressed at the expense of the grid type one, indicating the dominant/recessive behavior of the system. Together with earlier studies on the linear combination and crossover processing schemes, the dominant/recessive generation of 8 and 9 completes the demonstration of principle of the modes of multiple expression of molecular information in a multicode programmed chemical system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Paired oxygen-isotopic analyses of abiotic carbonate and benthic-ostracode shells from lake sediments provide a continuous quantitative record of growing-season temperature for the past 2000 years in the northwestern foothills of the Alaska Range. This record reveals three time intervals of comparable warmth: anno Domini (A.D.) 0–300, 850-1200, and post-1800, the latter two of which correspond to the Medieval Climatic Anomaly and climatic amelioration after the end of the Little Ice Age. The Little Ice Age culminated at A.D. 1700, when the climate was ≈1.7°C colder than at present. A marked climatic cooling also occurred around A.D. 600, coinciding with extensive glacial advances in Alaska. Comparisons of this temperature record with ostracode trace-element ratios (Mg/Ca, Sr/Ca) further suggest that colder periods were wetter and vice versa during the past 2000 years.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Kalman Filter commonly employed by control engineers and other physical scientists has been successfully used in such diverse areas as the processing of signals in aerospace tracking and underwater sonar, and statistical quality control. More recently, it has been used in some nonengineering applications such as short-term forecasting, time series, survival analysis, and so on. In all of these situations, we have a set of equations governing the true state of a system and another set connecting the observations made at any given time on the system with its true state. The problem is that of predicting the true state of the system at any given time point based on available observations. The solution proposed in the vast literature of the subject depends on the assumptions made on the initial state of the system. In this paper, a method that is independent of the initial state is proposed. This is useful when the a priori information on the initial state is not available. The method is also applicable when some observations are missing.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stone tools are often the most abundant type of cultural remains at Paleolithic sites, yet their function is often poorly understood. Investigations of stone tool function, including microscopic use-wear and residue analyses, were performed on a sample of artifacts from the Paleolithic sites of Starosele (40,000–80,000 years BP) and Buran Kaya III (32,000–37,000 years BP). The Middle Paleolithic levels at Starosele exhibit a typical variant of the local Micoquian Industry. The artifacts from Buran Kaya III most closely resemble an Early Streletskayan Industry associated with the early Upper Paleolithic. The results of the functional analyses suggest that hominids at both sites were exploiting woody and starchy plant material as well as birds and mammals. Both sites show evidence of hafting of a wide variety of tools and the possible use of projectile or thrusting spears. These analyses were performed by using two different techniques conducted by independent researchers. Combined residue and use-wear analyses suggest that both the Upper Paleolithic and Middle Paleolithic hominids at these sites were broad-based foragers capable of exploiting a wide range of resources.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The entire pathway for the synthesis of a fluorescent holophycobiliprotein subunit from a photosynthetic cyanobacterium (Synechocystis sp. PCC6803) was reconstituted in Escherichia coli. Cyanobacterial genes encoding enzymes required for the conversion of heme to the natural chromophore 3Z-phycocyanobilin, namely, heme oxygenase 1 and 3Z-phycocyanobilin:ferredoxin oxidoreductase, were expressed from a plasmid under control of the hybrid trp-lac (trc) promoter. Genes for the apoprotein (C-phycocyanin α subunit; cpcA) and the heterodimeric lyase (cpcE and cpcF) that catalyzes chromophore attachment were expressed from the trc promoter on a second plasmid. Upon induction, recombinant E. coli used the cellular pool of heme to produce holo-CpcA with spectroscopic properties qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those of the same protein produced endogenously in cyanobacteria. About a third of the apo-CpcA was converted to holo-CpcA. No significant bilin addition took place in a similarly engineered E. coli strain that lacks cpcE and cpcF. This approach should permit incisive analysis of many remaining questions in phycobiliprotein biosynthesis. These studies also demonstrate the feasibility of generating constructs of these proteins in situ for use as fluorescent protein probes in living cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The bilin prosthetic groups of the phytochrome photoreceptors and the light-harvesting phycobiliprotein antennae arise from the oxygen-dependent ring opening of heme. Two ferredoxin-dependent enzymes contribute to this conversion: a heme oxygenase and a bilin reductase with discrete double-bond specificity. Using a dual plasmid system, one expressing a truncated cyanobacterial apophytochrome 1, Cph1(N514), and the other expressing a two-gene operon consisting of a heme oxygenase and a bilin reductase, these studies establish the feasibility of producing photoactive phytochromes in any heme-containing cell. Heterologous expression systems for phytochromes not only will facilitate genetic analysis of their assembly, spectrophotometric activity, and biological function, but also might afford the means to regulate gene expression by light in nonplant cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Histone deacetylase (HDAC) catalyzes the removal of the acetyl group from the lysine residues in the N-terminal tails of nucleosomal core histones. Eight human HDACs have been identified so far. Here, we report the identification of a ninth member of the HDAC family, designated HDAC9. HDAC9 is a class II HDAC and its gene resides on human chromosome 7. HDAC9 has several alternatively spliced isoforms. One of these isoforms is histone deacetylase-related protein or myocyte enhancer-binding factor 2-interacting transcriptional repressor that we and others have previously reported and which does not possess an HDAC catalytic domain. The longest of the HDAC9 isoforms contains 1,011 aa. The isoform, designated HDAC9a, is 132 aa shorter at the C terminus than HDAC9. Also, we have identified isoforms of HDAC9 that lack the nuclear localization signal. Similar to histone deacetylase-related protein, HDAC9 transcripts are expressed at high levels in brain and skeletal muscle. The ratio of HDAC9 and HDAC9a transcripts differs among the tissues examined. HDAC9 and HDAC9a contain the HDAC catalytic domain, and Flag-tagged HDAC9 and HDAC9a possess deacetylase activity. HDAC9 and HDAC9a also repress myocyte enhancer-binding factor 2-mediated transcription. In the present study, we have identified HDAC9 and a number of alternatively spliced isoforms of HDAC9 with potentially different biological activities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC), a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of spermidine and spermine, is first synthesized as a proenzyme, which is cleaved posttranslationally to form α and β subunits. The α subunit contains a covalently bound pyruvoyl group derived from serine that is essential for activity. With the use of an Escherichia coli overexpression system, we have purified AdoMetDCs encoded by the E. coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Salmonella typhimurium genes. Unexpectedly we found by mass spectrometry that these enzymes had been modified posttranslationally in vivo by a mechanism-based “suicide” inactivation. A large percentage of the α subunit of each enzyme had been modified in vivo to give peaks with masses m/z = 57 ± 1 and m/z = 75 ± 1 daltons higher than the parent peak. AdoMetDC activity decreased markedly during overexpression concurrently with the increase of the additional peaks for the α subunit. Sequencing of a tryptic fragment by tandem mass spectrometry showed that Cys-140 was modified with a +75 ± 1 adduct, which is probably derived from the reaction product. Comparable modification of the α subunit was also observed in in vitro experiments after incubation with the substrate or with the reaction product, which is consistent with the in vitro alkylation of E. coli AdoMetDC reported by Diaz and Anton [Diaz, E. & Anton, D. L. (1991) Biochemistry 30, 4078–4081].
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ssrA tag, an 11-aa peptide added to the C terminus of proteins stalled during translation, targets proteins for degradation by ClpXP and ClpAP. Mutational analysis of the ssrA tag reveals independent, but overlapping determinants for its interactions with ClpX, ClpA, and SspB, a specificity-enhancing factor for ClpX. ClpX interacts with residues 9–11 at the C terminus of the tag, whereas ClpA recognizes positions 8–10 in addition to residues 1–2 at the N terminus. SspB interacts with residues 1–4 and 7, N-terminal to the ClpX-binding determinants, but overlapping the ClpA determinants. As a result, SspB and ClpX work together to recognize ssrA-tagged substrates efficiently, whereas SspB inhibits recognition of these substrates by ClpA. Thus, dissection of the recognition signals within the ssrA tag provides insight into how multiple proteins function in concert to modulate proteolysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Developing minor groove-binding drugs to selectively inhibit transcription factor (TF)/DNA interactions and accompanying gene expression is a current goal in drug development studies. Equipping minor groove-binding agents with positively charged, major groove-contacting side chains yields microgonotropens (MGTs). Previously, we demonstrated that MGTs were superior inhibitors of TF/DNA complexes in cell-free assays compared with “classical” groove binders, but MGTs showed limited ability to inhibit gene expression. To determine what chemical characteristics contribute to or improve activity, we evaluate five MGTs for their effectiveness in inhibiting TF complex formation and resultant transcription by using the c-fos serum response element (SRE) as a target. MGT L1 binds DNA via a bisbenzimidazole equipped with a tripyrrole moiety. It is compared with analog L2, which has been functionalized with propylamines on each of the three pyrroles. L2, which binds DNA at subpicomolar concentrations, was at least three orders of magnitude more potent than L1 at inhibiting TF binding to the c-fos SRE in cell-free assays. Unlike L1 and previous MGTs, L2 also inhibited endogenous c-fos expression in NIH 3T3 cells at micromolar levels. Structure/activity relationships suggest that, although the tripyrrole/polyamine functional group of L2 may be largely responsible for its inhibition of TF complexes in cell-free assays, its bisbenzimidazole moiety appears to impart improved cellular uptake and activity. These findings make L2 a promising lead candidate for future, rational MGT design.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic selection was used to explore the probability of finding enzymes in protein sequence space. Large degenerate libraries were prepared by replacing all secondary structure units in a dimeric, helical bundle chorismate mutase with simple binary-patterned modules based on a limited set of four polar and four nonpolar residues. Two-stage in vivo selection yielded catalytically active variants possessing biophysical and kinetic properties typical of the natural enzyme even though ≈80% of the protein originates from the simplified modules and >90% of the protein consists of only eight different amino acids. This study provides a quantitative assessment of the number of sequences compatible with a given fold and implicates previously unidentified residues needed to form a functional active site. Given the extremely low incidence of enzymes in completely unbiased libraries, strategies that combine chemical information with genetic selection, like the one used here, may be generally useful in designing novel protein scaffolds with tailored activities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The influenza A virus, a severe pandemic pathogen, has a segmented RNA genome consisting of eight single-stranded RNA molecules. The 5′ and 3′ ends of each RNA segment recognized by the influenza A virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase direct both transcription and replication of the virus's RNA genome. Promoter binding by the viral RNA polymerase and formation of an active open complex are prerequisites for viral replication and proliferation. Here we describe the solution structure of this promoter as solved by multidimensional, heteronuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Our studies show that the viral promoter has a significant dynamic nature and reveal an unusual displacement of an adenosine that forms a novel (A-A)⋅U motif and a C-A mismatch stacked in a helix. The characterized structural features of the promoter imply that the specificity of polymerase binding results from an internal RNA loop. In addition, an unexpected bending (46 ± 10°) near the initiation site suggests the existence of a promoter recognition mechanism similar to that of DNA-dependent RNA polymerase and a possible regulatory function for the terminal structure during open complex formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tension generated in the circular mitochondrial genome during replication and transcription points to the need for mtDNA topoisomerase activity. Here we report a 601-aa polypeptide highly homologous to nuclear topoisomerase I. The N-terminal domain of this novel topoisomerase contains a mitochondrial localization sequence and lacks a nuclear localization signal. Therefore, we refer to this polypeptide as top1mt. The pattern of top1mt expression matches the requirement for high mitochondrial activity in specific tissues. top1mt is a type IB topoisomerase that requires divalent metal (Ca2+ or Mg2+) and alkaline pH for optimum activity. The TOP1mt gene is highly homologous to the nuclear TOP1 gene and consists of 14 exons. It is localized on human chromosome 8q24.3.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several members of the Rubiaceae and Violaceae families produce a series of cyclotides or macrocyclic peptides of 29–31 amino acids with an embedded cystine knot. We aim to understand the mechanism of synthesis of cyclic peptides in plants and have isolated a cDNA clone that encodes the cyclotide kalata B1 as well as three other clones for related cyclotides from the African plant Oldenlandia affinis. The cDNA clones encode prepropeptides with a 20-aa signal sequence, an N-terminal prosequence of 46–68 amino acids and one, two, or three cyclotide domains separated by regions of about 25 aa. The corresponding cyclotides have been isolated from plant material, indicating that the cyclotide domains are excised and cyclized from all four predicted precursor proteins. The exact processing site is likely to lie on the N-terminal side of the strongly conserved GlyLeuPro or SerLeuPro sequence that flanks both sides of the cyclotide domain. Cyclotides have previously been assigned an antimicrobial function; here we describe a potent inhibitory effect on the growth and development of larvae from the Lepidopteran species Helicoverpa punctigera.
DOC DONE!Abstract
As part of our studies on the regulation of polyamine biosynthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we have investigated the effect of spermidine on the degradation of ornithine decarboxylase in this organism. We have found that in S. cerevisiae, as in other eukaryotic cells, the rate of degradation of ornithine decarboxylase, measured either enzymatically or immunologically, is increased by the addition of spermidine to a yeast culture. It is noteworthy that this effect of added spermidine is found even when the experiments are conducted with strains in which the ornithine decarboxylase is overexpressed several hundred-fold more than the wild-type level. The effect of added spermidine in the overexpressed SPE1 strains is best seen in spe2 mutants in which the initial intracellular spermidine is very low or absent. Experiments with cycloheximide show that new protein synthesis is required to effect the breakdown of the ornithine decarboxylase. These results indicate that S. cerevisiae contains an antizyme-like mechanism for the control of the level of ornithine decarboxylase by spermidine, even though, as contrasted with other eukaryotic cells, no specific antizyme homologue has been detected either in in vitro experiments or in the S. cerevisiae genome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cell morphology and motility are governed largely by complex signaling networks that ultimately engage the actin cytoskeleton. Understanding how individual circuits contribute to the process of forming cellular structures would be aided greatly by the availability of specific chemical inhibitors. We have used a novel chemical screen in Xenopus cell-free extracts to identify compounds that inhibit signaling pathways regulating actin polymerization. Here we report the results of a high-throughput screen for compounds that inhibit phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2)-induced actin assembly and the identification of the first compound, a cyclic peptide, known to block actin assembly by inhibiting an upstream signaling component. We identify the target of this compound as N-WASP, a protein that has been investigated for its role as a node interconnecting various actin signaling networks. We show that this compound prevents activation of the Arp2/3 complex by N-WASP by allosterically stabilizing the autoinhibited conformation of N-WASP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present genome-wide microarray expression analysis of 11,000 genes in an aging potentially mitotic tissue, the liver. This organ has a major impact on health and homeostasis during aging. The effects of life- and health-span-extending caloric restriction (CR) on gene expression among young and old mice and between long-term CR (LT-CR) and short-term CR (ST-CR) were examined. This experimental design allowed us to accurately distinguish the effects of aging from those of CR on gene expression. Aging was accompanied by changes in gene expression associated with increased inflammation, cellular stress, and fibrosis, and reduced capacity for apoptosis, xenobiotic metabolism, normal cell-cycling, and DNA replication. LT-CR and just 4 weeks of ST-CR reversed the majority of these changes. LT-CR produced in young mice a pattern of gene expression that is a subset of the changes found in old LT-CR mice. It is possible that the early changes in gene expression, which extend into old age, are key to the life- and health-span-extending effects of CR. Further, ST-CR substantially shifted the “normo-aging” genomic profile of old control mice toward the “slow-aging” profile associated with LT-CR. Therefore, many of the genomic effects of CR are established rapidly. Thus, expression profiling should prove useful in quickly identifying CR- mimetic drugs and treatments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We propose a docking method that mimics the way proteins bind. The method accounts for the dominant driving forces at the different length scales of the protein binding process, allowing for an efficient selection of a downhill path on the evolving receptor-ligand-free energy landscape. Starting from encounter complexes with as much as 10 Å rms deviation from the native conformation, the method locally samples the six dimensional space of rigid-body receptor-ligand structures subject to a van der Waals constraint. The sampling is initially biased only by the desolvation and electrostatic components of the free energy, which capture the partial affinity of unbound structures that are more than 4 Å away from the native state. Below this threshold, improved discrimination is attained by adding an increasing fraction of the van der Waals energy to the force field. The method, with no free parameters, was tested in eight different sets of independently crystallized receptor-ligand structures consistently predicting bound conformations with the lowest free energies and appropriate stability gap around 2 Å from the native complex. This multistage approach is consistent with the underlying kinetics and internal structure of the free energy funnel to the bound state. Implications for the nature of the protein binding pathways are also discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
As shown earlier, raft-like domains resembling those thought to be present in natural cell membranes can be formed in supported planar lipid monolayers. These liquid-ordered domains coexist with a liquid-disordered phase and form in monolayers prepared both from synthetic lipid mixtures and lipid extracts of the brush border membrane of mouse kidney cells. The domains are detergent-resistant and are highly enriched in the glycosphingolipid GM1. In this work, the properties of these raft-like domains are further explored and compared with properties thought to be central to raft function in plasma membranes. First, it is shown that domain formation and disruption critically depends on the cholesterol density and can be controlled reversibly by treating the monolayers with the cholesterol-sequestering reagent methyl-β-cyclodextrin. Second, the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored cell-surface protein Thy-1 significantly partitions into the raft-like domains. The extent of this partitioning is reduced when the monolayers contain GM1, indicating that different molecules can compete for domain occupation. Third, the partitioning of a saturated phospholipid analog into the raft phase is dramatically increased (15% to 65%) after cross-linking with antibodies, whereas the distribution of a doubly unsaturated phospholipid analog is not significantly affected by cross-linking (≈10%). This result demonstrates that cross-linking, a process known to be important for certain cell-signaling processes, can selectively translocate molecules to liquid-ordered domains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The multiwavelength anomalous diffraction (MAD) method for phase evaluation is now widely used in macromolecular crystallography. Successful MAD structure determinations have been carried out at the K or L absorption edges of a variety of elements. In this study, we investigate the anomalous scattering properties of uranium at its MIV (3.326 Å) and MV (3.490 Å) edge. Fluorescence spectra showed remarkably strong anomalous scattering at these edges (f′ = −70e, f′′ = 80e at the MIV edge and f′ = −90e, f′′ = 105e at the MV edge), many times higher than from any anomalous scatterers used previously for MAD phasing. However, the large scattering angles and high absorption at the low energies of these edges present some difficulties not found in typical crystallographic studies. We conducted test experiments at the MIV edge with crystals of porcine elastase derivatized with uranyl nitrate. A four-wavelength MAD data set complete to 3.2-Å Bragg spacings was collected from a single small frozen crystal. Analysis of the data yielded satisfactory phase information (average difference of 0ϕT − 0ϕA for replicated determinations is 32°) and produced an interpretable electron-density map. Our results demonstrate that it is practical to measure macromolecular diffraction data at these edges with current instrumentation and that phase information of good accuracy can be extracted from such experiments. We show that such experiments have potential for the phasing of very large macromolecular assemblages.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The detection of biological molecules and their interactions is a significant component of modern biomedical research. In current biosensor technologies, simultaneous detection is limited to a small number of analytes by the spectral overlap of their signals. We have developed an NMR-based xenon biosensor that capitalizes on the enhanced signal-to-noise, spectral simplicity, and chemical-shift sensitivity of laser-polarized xenon to detect specific biomolecules at the level of tens of nanomoles. We present results using xenon “functionalized” by a biotin-modified supramolecular cage to detect biotin–avidin binding. This biosensor methodology can be extended to a multiplexing assay for multiple analytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We studied the interaction between the integration host factor (IHF), a major nucleoid-associated protein in bacteria, and single DNA molecules. Force–extension measurements of λ DNA and an analysis of the Brownian motion of small beads tethered to a surface by single short DNA molecules, in equilibrium with an IHF solution, indicate that: (i) the DNA–IHF complex retains a random, although more compact, coiled configuration for zero or small values of the tension, (ii) IHF induces DNA compaction by binding to multiple DNA sites with low specificity, and (iii) with increasing tension on the DNA, the elastic properties of bare DNA are recovered. This behavior is consistent with the predictions of a statistical mechanical model describing how proteins bending DNA are driven off by an applied tension on the DNA molecule. Estimates of the amount of bound IHF in DNA–IHF complexes obtained from the model agree very well with independent measurements of this quantity obtained from the analysis of DNA–IHF crosslinking. Our findings support the long-held view that IHF and other histone-like proteins play an important role in shaping the long-scale structure of the bacterial nucleoid.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The behavior of proteins at biological and synthetic interfaces is often characterized by a strong history dependence caused by long relaxation times or irreversible transitions. In this work, we introduce the rate of adsorption as a means to systematically quantify the extent, and identify the underlying causes, of history dependence. We use multistep kinetic experiments in which the i′th step is an exposure of a Si(Ti)O2 surface to a flowing fibronectin or cytochrome c solution of concentration ci for a time ti (ci = 0 corresponds to a rinse) and measure the protein adsorption by optical waveguide light mode spectroscopy. The rate of adsorption is sensitive to the structure of the adsorbed layer, and we observe it to greatly increase, for a given adsorbed density, when going from a first to a subsequent adsorption step. This increase is most pronounced when the duration of the initial adsorption step is long. We attribute these observations to the gradual and irreversible formation of protein clusters or locally ordered structures and use them to explain previous underestimates of kinetic data by mesoscopic model descriptions. A thorough understanding of these complex postadsorption events, and their impact on history dependence, is essential for many physiological and biotechnological processes. Optical waveguide lightmode spectroscopy is a promising technique for their macroscopic quantification.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The C′ position of the C-capping box is the second residue outside of the helix. Statistical analysis of residue distribution at the C′ position in the α-helices' C-capping box showed that different amino acid residues occur with different probabilities, with the strongest preference being for glycine. To understand the physico-chemical basis for this preference, we studied the effects that 17 amino acid substitutions at the C′ position in an α-helix of ubiquitin have on the stability of this protein. We determined the following rank order of amino acid residues at the C′ position with respect to their effect on the stability: Gly>His>Asn>Arg>Lys>Gln>Ala>Phe>Met>Ser>Asp>Glu>Trp>Thr>Pro>Ile>Val. The effect of the amino acid substitutions on the structure also was evaluated by comparing the 1H-15N heteronuclear sequential quantum correlation spectra and showed no significant changes in the structures of the most stable (Gly) and the least stable (Val) variants. The obtained changes in stability highly correlate (r = 0.85) with the statistical distribution of the residues at the C′ position indicating that the measured thermodynamic propensities are unbiased by secondary interactions. We also found that the measured thermodynamic propensities correlate well with the amide hydrogen exchange data on short model peptides (r = 0.85) and the calculated hydration of the peptide backbone (r = 0.88). These results combined with the changes in enthalpy and entropy of unfolding of ubiquitin variants suggest that dehydration of the peptide backbone plays a significant role in defining the thermodynamic propensity scale at the C′ position of the C-capping box in α-helices. This propensity scale is useful for protein secondary structure predictions and protein design.
DOC DONE!Abstract
FepA, an outer membrane iron siderophore transporter from Escherichia coli, is composed of a 22-stranded membrane-spanning β barrel with a globular N-terminal “plug” domain of 148 residues that folds up inside the barrel and completely occludes the barrel's interior (1). We have overexpressed and purified this plug domain by itself and find that it behaves in vitro as a predominantly unfolded yet soluble protein, as determined by circular dichroism, thermal denaturation, and NMR studies. Despite its unfolded state, the isolated domain binds ferric enterobactin, the siderophore ligand of FepA, with an affinity of 5 μM, just 100-fold reduced from that of intact FepA. These findings argue against the hypothesis that the plug domain is pulled intact from the barrel during transport in vivo but may be consistent either with a model where the plug rearranges within the barrel to create a channel large enough to allow transport or with a model where the plug unfolds and comes out of the barrel.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An important component of muscle elasticity is the PEVK region of titin, so named because of the preponderance of these amino acids. However, the PEVK region, similar to other elastomeric proteins, is thought to form a random coil and therefore its structure cannot be determined by standard techniques. Here we combine single-molecule electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy to examine the conformations of the human cardiac titin PEVK region. In contrast to a simple random coil, we have found that cardiac PEVK shows a wide range of elastic conformations with end-to-end distances ranging from 9 to 24 nm and persistence lengths from 0.4 to 2.5 nm. Individual PEVK molecules retained their distinctive elastic conformations through many stretch-relaxation cycles, consistent with the view that these PEVK conformers cannot be interconverted by force. The multiple elastic conformations of cardiac PEVK may result from varying degrees of proline isomerization. The single-molecule techniques demonstrated here may help elucidate the conformation of other proteins that lack a well-defined structure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein L consists of a single α-helix packed on a four-stranded β-sheet formed by two symmetrically opposed β-hairpins. We use a computer-based protein design procedure to stabilize a domain-swapped dimer of protein L in which the second β-turn straightens and the C-terminal strand inserts into the β-sheet of the partner. The designed obligate dimer contains three mutations (A52V, N53P, and G55A) and has a dissociation constant of ≈700 pM, which is comparable to the dissociation constant of many naturally occurring protein dimers. The structure of the dimer has been determined by x-ray crystallography and is close to the in silico model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The TRP (transient receptor potential) superfamily includes a group of subfamilies of channel-like proteins mediating a multitude of physiological signaling processes. The TRP-melastatin (TRPM) subfamily includes the putative tumor suppressor melastatin (MLSN) and is a poorly characterized group of TRP-related proteins. Here, we describe the identification and characterization of an additional TRPM protein TRPM4. We reveal that TRPM4 and MLSN each mediate Ca2+ entry when expressed in HEK293 cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a short form of MLSN (MLSN-S) interacts directly with and suppresses the activity of full-length MLSN (MLSN-L). This suppression seems to result from the inhibition of translocation of MLSN-L to the plasma membrane. We propose that control of translocation through interaction between MLSN-S and MLSN-L represents a mode for regulating ion channel activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Melanosome biogenesis and function were studied after purification of early stage melanosomes and characterization of specific proteins sorted to that organelle. Melanosomes were isolated from highly pigmented human MNT1 melanoma cells after disruption and initial separation by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Low-density sucrose fractions were found by electron microscopy to be enriched in stage I and stage II melanosomes, and these fractions were further separated and purified by free flow electrophoresis. Tyrosinase and dopachrome tautomerase (DCT) activities were found exclusively in stage II melanosomes, even though DCT (and to some extent tyrosinase) proteins were sorted to stage I melanosomes. Western immunoblotting revealed that these catalytic proteins, as well as TYRP1, MART1, and GP100, were cleaved and inactivated in stage I melanosomes. Proteolytic cleavage was critical for the refolding of GP100 within the melanosomal milieu, and subsequent reorganization of amorphous stage I melanosomes into fibrillar, ovoid, and highly organized stage II melanosomes appears to stabilize the catalytic functions of melanosomal enzymes and allows melanin biosynthesis to begin. These results provide a better understanding of the structural features seen during melanosome biogenesis, and they yield further clues as to the physiological regulation of pigmentation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
COPII-coated vesicles carry proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi complex. This vesicular transport can be reconstituted by using three cytosolic components containing five proteins: the small GTPase Sar1p, the Sec23p/24p complex, and the Sec13p/Sec31p complex. We have used a combination of biochemistry and electron microscopy to investigate the molecular organization and structure of Sec23p/24p and Sec13p/31p complexes. The three-dimensional reconstruction of Sec23p/24p reveals that it has a bone-shaped structure, (17 nm in length), composed of two similar globular domains, one corresponding to Sec23p and the other to Sec24p. Sec13p/31p is a heterotetramer composed of two copies of Sec13p and two copies of Sec31p. It has an elongated shape, is 28–30 nm in length, and contains five consecutive globular domains linked by relatively flexible joints. Putting together the architecture of these Sec complexes with the interactions between their subunits and the appearance of the coat in COPII-coated vesicles, we present a model for COPII coat organization.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The UDP-glucose:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase (GT) is a protein folding sensor and glycosyltransferase that constitutes an important component of the protein quality control machinery. With the use of quantitative immunogold electron microscopy, we established the subcellular distribution of GT in rat liver and pancreas and Drosophila melanogaster salivary gland as well as cell lines and correlated it with that of glucosidase II, calreticulin, and pre-Golgi intermediate markers. Labeling for GT, as well as for glucosidase II and calreticulin, was found in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), including nuclear envelope and pre-Golgi intermediates located between ER and Golgi apparatus, and in the cell periphery. In the rough ER, labeling for GT was inhomogeneous, with variously sized labeled and unlabeled cisternal regions alternating, indicative of a meshwork of quality control checkpoints. Notably, labeling intensity for GT was highest in pre-Golgi intermediates, corresponding to twice that of rough ER, whereas the Golgi apparatus exhibited no specific labeling. These results suggest that protein quality control is not restricted to the ER and that the pre-Golgi intermediates, by virtue of the presence of GT, glucosidase II, and calreticulin, are involved in this fundamental cellular process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human embryonic stem (ES) cells are undifferentiated, pluripotent cells that can be maintained indefinitely in culture. Here we demonstrate that human ES cells differentiate to hematopoietic precursor cells when cocultured with the murine bone marrow cell line S17 or the yolk sac endothelial cell line C166. This hematopoietic differentiation requires fetal bovine serum, but no other exogenous cytokines. ES cell-derived hematopoietic precursor cells express the cell surface antigen CD34 and the hematopoietic transcription factors TAL-1, LMO-2, and GATA-2. When cultured on semisolid media with hematopoietic growth factors, these hematopoietic precursor cells form characteristic myeloid, erythroid, and megakaryocyte colonies. Selection for CD34+ cells derived from human ES cells enriches for hematopoietic colony-forming cells, similar to CD34 selection of primary hematopoietic tissue (bone marrow, umbilical cord blood). More terminally differentiated hematopoietic cells derived from human ES cells under these conditions also express normal surface antigens: glycophorin A on erythroid cells, CD15 on myeloid cells, and CD41 on megakaryocytes. The in vitro differentiation of human ES cells provides an opportunity to better understand human hematopoiesis and could lead to a novel source of cells for transfusion and transplantation therapies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations in the Ras family of GTP binding proteins represent one of the most frequently observed genetic alterations in human cancers. We and others have recently demonstrated that expression of Met, the tyrosine kinase receptor for hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF), is significantly up-regulated in Ras-transformed cells. Because HGF/SF-Met signaling is proposed to play a prominent role in tumor development and progression, we assessed the possible requirement for Met during Ras-mediated tumor growth and metastasis. To disrupt endogenous Met signaling, we constructed dominant-negative mutants of both human and murine Met and showed that these can inhibit HGF/SF-mediated Met signaling and cell invasion of ras-transformed cells in vitro. Moreover, ectopic expression of dominant-negative Met mutants reduced the s.c. tumor growth of ras-transformed cells and dramatically suppressed their ability to form lung metastases in vivo. Our data demonstrate that Met plays a prominent role during Ras-mediated tumor growth and metastasis, and further suggest that agents that inhibit HGF/SF-Met signaling may represent an important therapeutic avenue for the treatment of a variety of malignant tumors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transgenic mice have provided invaluable information about gene function and regulation. However, because of marked differences between rodents and primates, some areas of human biology such as early embryonic development, aging, and maternal–fetal interactions would be best studied in a nonhuman primate model. Here, we report that gene transfer into rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) preimplantation embryos gives rise to transgenic placentas that express a reporter transgene (eGFP). Blastocysts resulting from culture of in vitro fertilized ova were transduced with a self-inactivating lentiviral vector and transferred into recipient females. One twin and one singleton pregnancy were produced from a single stimulation cycle, and one live rhesus monkey was born from each pregnancy. Placentas from all conceptuses showed expression of the transgene as detected by reverse transcription–PCR, ribonuclease protection assay, direct epifluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis. Integration in somatic tissues of the offspring was not detected. A maternal immune response to the xenogeneic placental antigen was shown by the presence of anti-GFP antibodies in peripheral blood of the recipient females by day 99 of gestation (term = 165 days). These results demonstrate that transgene expression during gestation is compatible with successful pregnancy in nonhuman primates and provides an approach that could be broadly applicable to the development of novel models for primate biomedical research.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The concept of tissue-restricted differentiation of postnatal stem cells has been challenged by recent evidence showing pluripotency for hematopoietic, mesenchymal, and neural stem cells. Furthermore, rare but well documented examples exist of already differentiated cells in developing mammals that change fate and trans-differentiate into another cell type. Here, we report that endothelial cells, either freshly isolated from embryonic vessels or established as homogenous cells in culture, differentiate into beating cardiomyocytes and express cardiac markers when cocultured with neonatal rat cardiomyocytes or when injected into postischemic adult mouse heart. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells also differentiate into cardiomyocytes under similar experimental conditions and transiently coexpress von Willebrand factor and sarcomeric myosin. In contrast, neural stem cells, which efficiently differentiate into skeletal muscle, differentiate into cardiomyocytes at a low rate. Fibroblast growth factor 2 and bone morphogenetic protein 4, which activate cardiac differentiation in embryonic cells, do not activate cardiogenesis in endothelial cells or stimulate trans-differentiation in coculture, suggesting that different signaling molecules are responsible for cardiac induction during embryogenesis and in successive periods of development. The fact that endothelial cells can generate cardiomyocytes sheds additional light on the plasticity of endothelial cells during development and opens perspectives for cell autologous replacement therapies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Metamorphosis of anuran tadpoles is controlled by thyroid hormone (TH). Here we demonstrate that transgenic Xenopus laevis tadpoles expressing a dominant negative form of TH receptor-α are resistant to a wide variety of the metamorphic changes induced by TH. This result confirms that TH receptors mediate both early and late developmental programs of metamorphosis as diverse as growth in the brain, limb buds, nose and Meckel's cartilage, remodeling of the intestine, and death and resorption of the gills and tail.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Enolase genes from land plants and apicomplexa (intracellular parasites, including the malarial parasite, Plasmodium) share two short insertions. This observation has led to the suggestion that the apicomplexan enolase is the product of a lateral transfer event involving the algal endosymbiont from which the apicomplexan plastid is derived. We have examined enolases from a wide variety of algae, as well as ciliates (close relatives of apicomplexa), to determine whether lateral transfer can account for the origin of the apicomplexan enolase. We find that lateral gene transfer, likely occurring intracellularly between endosymbiont and host nucleus, does account for the evolution of cryptomonad and chlorarachniophyte algal enolases but fails to explain the apicomplexan enolase. This failure is because the phylogenetic distribution of the insertions—which we find in apicomplexa, ciliates, land plants, and charophyte green algae—directly conflicts with the phylogeny of the gene itself. Protein insertions have traditionally been treated as reliable markers of evolutionary events; however, these enolase insertions do not seem to reflect accurately the evolutionary history of the molecule. The lack of congruence between insertions and phylogeny could be because of the parallel loss of both insertions in two or more lineages, or what is more likely, because the insertions were transmitted between distantly related genes by lateral transfer and fine-scale recombination, resulting in a mosaic gene. This latter process would be difficult to detect without such insertions to act as markers, and such mosaic genes could blur the “tree of life” beyond the extent to which whole-gene lateral transfer is already known to confound evolutionary reconstruction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A major issue in all data collection for molecular phylogenetics is taxon sampling, which refers to the use of data from only a small representative set of species for inferring higher-level evolutionary history. Insufficient taxon sampling is often cited as a significant source of error in phylogenetic studies, and consequently, acquisition of large data sets is advocated. To test this assertion, we have conducted computer simulation studies by using natural collections of evolutionary parameters—rates of evolution, species sampling, and gene lengths—determined from data available in genomic databases. A comparison of the true tree with trees constructed by using taxa subsamples and trees constructed by using all taxa shows that the amount of phylogenetic error per internal branch is similar; a result that holds true for the neighbor-joining, minimum evolution, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood methods. Furthermore, our results show that even though trees inferred by using progressively larger taxa subsamples of a real data set become increasingly similar to trees inferred by using the full sample, all inferred trees are equidistant from the true tree in terms of phylogenetic error per internal branch. Our results suggest that longer sequences, rather than extensive sampling, will better improve the accuracy of phylogenetic inference.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Minigames capturing the essence of Public Goods experiments show that even in the absence of rationality assumptions, both punishment and reward will fail to bring about prosocial behavior. This result holds in particular for the well-known Ultimatum Game, which emerges as a special case. But reputation can induce fairness and cooperation in populations adapting through learning or imitation. Indeed, the inclusion of reputation effects in the corresponding dynamical models leads to the evolution of economically productive behavior, with agents contributing to the public good and either punishing those who do not or rewarding those who do. Reward and punishment correspond to two types of bifurcation with intriguing complementarity. The analysis suggests that reputation is essential for fostering social behavior among selfish agents, and that it is considerably more effective with punishment than with reward.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plant receptor-like kinases (RLKs) are proteins with a predicted signal sequence, single transmembrane region, and cytoplasmic kinase domain. Receptor-like kinases belong to a large gene family with at least 610 members that represent nearly 2.5% of Arabidopsis protein coding genes. We have categorized members of this family into subfamilies based on both the identity of the extracellular domains and the phylogenetic relationships between the kinase domains of subfamily members. Surprisingly, this structurally defined group of genes is monophyletic with respect to kinase domains when compared with the other eukaryotic kinase families. In an extended analysis, animal receptor kinases, Raf kinases, plant RLKs, and animal receptor tyrosine kinases form a well supported group sharing a common origin within the superfamily of serine/threonine/tyrosine kinases. Among animal kinase sequences, Drosophila Pelle and related cytoplasmic kinases fall within the plant RLK clade, which we now define as the RLK/Pelle family. A survey of expressed sequence tag records for land plants reveals that mosses, ferns, conifers, and flowering plants have similar percentages of expressed sequence tags representing RLK/Pelle homologs, suggesting that the size of this gene family may have been close to the present-day level before the diversification of land plant lineages. The distribution pattern of four RLK subfamilies on Arabidopsis chromosomes indicates that the expansion of this gene family is partly a consequence of duplication and reshuffling of the Arabidopsis genome and of the generation of tandem repeats.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic distance measurements are an important tool to differentiate field populations of disease vectors such as the mosquito vectors of malaria. Here, we have measured the genetic differentiation between Anopheles arabiensis and Anopheles gambiae, as well as between proposed emerging species of the latter taxon, in whole genome scans by using 23–25 microsatellite loci. In doing so, we have reviewed and evaluated the advantages and disadvantages of standard parameters of genetic distance, FST, RST, (δμ)2, and D. Further, we have introduced new parameters, D′ and DK, which have well defined statistical significance tests and complement the standard parameters to advantage. D′ is a modification of D, whereas DK is a measure of covariance based on Pearson's correlation coefficient. We find that A. gambiae and A. arabiensis are closely related at most autosomal loci but appear to be distantly related on the basis of X-linked chromosomal loci within the chromosomal Xag inversion. The M and S molecular forms of A. gambiae are practically indistinguishable but differ significantly at two microsatellite loci from the proximal region of the X, outside the Xag inversion. At one of these loci, both M and S molecular forms differ significantly from A. arabiensis, but remarkably, at the other locus, A. arabiensis is indistinguishable from the M molecular form of A. gambiae. These data support the recent proposal of genetically differentiated M and S molecular forms of A. gambiae.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Since their inception, tetracycline (Tet)-inducible systems have become the method of choice for transgenic research. The Tet-Off systems have a number of advantages, including robust target induction using a relatively benign effector molecule. However, use of the Tet-On system has been fraught with difficulties, including high background expression in the absence of effector molecules and inconsistent gene induction. Recently, secondgeneration Tet-On transactivators (TAs) have been described. In HeLa cells, they are far more efficient than the original reverse TA protein, and they exhibit lower background activity in the absence of effectors. Here we examine the most promising TA in transgenic Drosophila and characterize its in vivo properties. We report that low levels of doxycycline, when added to normal fly food, efficiently and rapidly induce target transgenes in adults, larvae, and embryos. This TA is superior to all other Tet-On proteins, and its performance is comparable to that of the widely used Tet-Off TA. In addition, combining the improved Tet-On TA with the Gal4-UAS (upstream-activating sequence) system produces robust, spatially restricted, temporally controlled transgene induction. Because this Tet-On TA is significantly more efficient than previous ones used in Drosophila, it is also possible to modulate gene induction by controlling the dosage of the antibiotic in the food.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Correspondence analysis is an explorative computational method for the study of associations between variables. Much like principal component analysis, it displays a low-dimensional projection of the data, e.g., into a plane. It does this, though, for two variables simultaneously, thus revealing associations between them. Here, we demonstrate the applicability of correspondence analysis to and high value for the analysis of microarray data, displaying associations between genes and experiments. To introduce the method, we show its application to the well-known Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell-cycle synchronization data by Spellman et al. [Spellman, P. T., Sherlock, G., Zhang, M. Q., Iyer, V. R., Anders, K., Eisen, M. B., Brown, P. O., Botstein, D. & Futcher, B. (1998) Mol. Biol. Cell 9, 3273–3297], allowing for comparison with their visualization of this data set. Furthermore, we apply correspondence analysis to a non-time-series data set of our own, thus supporting its general applicability to microarray data of different complexity, underlying structure, and experimental strategy (both two-channel fluorescence-tag and radioactive labeling).
DOC DONE!Abstract
In an effort to develop a genomics-based approach to the prediction of drug response, we have developed an algorithm for classification of cell line chemosensitivity based on gene expression profiles alone. Using oligonucleotide microarrays, the expression levels of 6,817 genes were measured in a panel of 60 human cancer cell lines (the NCI-60) for which the chemosensitivity profiles of thousands of chemical compounds have been determined. We sought to determine whether the gene expression signatures of untreated cells were sufficient for the prediction of chemosensitivity. Gene expression-based classifiers of sensitivity or resistance for 232 compounds were generated and then evaluated on independent sets of data. The classifiers were designed to be independent of the cells' tissue of origin. The accuracy of chemosensitivity prediction was considerably better than would be expected by chance. Eighty-eight of 232 expression-based classifiers performed accurately (with P < 0.05) on an independent test set, whereas only 12 of the 232 would be expected to do so by chance. These results suggest that at least for a subset of compounds genomic approaches to chemosensitivity prediction are feasible.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genetic component of susceptibility to malaria is complex, both in humans and in the mouse model of infection. Two murine loci on chromosomes 8 (Pchr/Char2) and 9 (Char1) have previously been mapped in F2 crosses, and play an important role in regulating blood parasitemia and survival to infection with Plasmodium chabaudi. These loci explain only part of the interstrain phenotypic variance, and their penetrance and expressivity vary in different inbred strains. Novel loci regulating response to P. chabaudi infection were investigated by using an alternative strategy based on a newly derived set of AcB/BcA recombinant congenic strains bred from malaria-susceptible A/J (A) and resistant C57BL/6J (B6). One of the AcB strains, AcB55, is shown to be highly resistant to infection despite 83% susceptible A genomic composition, including susceptibility alleles at Char1 and Pchr/Char2. Early onset of parasite clearance in AcB55 is associated with lower peak parasitemia and absence of mortality. Linkage analysis in an informative (AcB55 × A)F2 population, using peak parasitemia as a quantitative trait, located a new B6-derived resistance locus on chromosome 3 (lod score = 6.57) that we designate Char4. A second, suggestive linkage on chromosome 10 (lod score = 2.53) shows additive effect with Char4 on peak parasitemia. Char4 maps to a small congenic B6 fragment in AcB55 that should facilitate the search for candidate genes. Our findings provide an entry point for parallel association studies in humans between the syntenic 4q21–4q25 region and susceptibility to disease in endemic areas of malaria.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structural basis of the interaction between the CD4 coreceptor and a class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is described. The crystal structure of a complex containing the human CD4 N-terminal two-domain fragment and the murine I-Ak class II MHC molecule with associated peptide (pMHCII) shows that only the “top corner” of the CD4 molecule directly contacts pMHCII. The CD4 Phe-43 side chain extends into a hydrophobic concavity formed by MHC residues from both α2 and β2 domains. A ternary model of the CD4-pMHCII-T-cell receptor (TCR) reveals that the complex appears V-shaped with the membrane-proximal pMHCII at the apex. This configuration excludes a direct TCR–CD4 interaction and suggests how TCR and CD4 signaling is coordinated around the antigenic pMHCII complex. Human CD4 binds to HIV gp120 in a manner strikingly similar to the way in which CD4 interacts with pMHCII. Additional contacts between gp120 and CD4 give the CD4–gp120 complex a greater affinity. Thus, ligation of the viral envelope glycoprotein to CD4 occludes the pMHCII-binding site on CD4, contributing to immunodeficiency.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Flow cytometry was used to study signaling events in individual CD4 T cells after antigen recognition in the body. Phosphorylation of c-jun and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase was detected within minutes in all antigen-specific CD4 T cells in secondary lymphoid tissues after injection of peptide antigen into the bloodstream. The remarkable rapidity of this response correlated with the finding that most naive T cells are in constant contact with dendritic antigen-presenting cells. Contrary to predictions from in vitro experiments, antigen-induced c-jun and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation did not depend on CD28 signals and was insensitive to inhibition by cyclosporin A. Our results highlight the efficiency of the in vivo immune response and underscore the need to verify which signaling pathways identified in vitro actually operate under physiological conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous work has established a role for CD40-mediated signals in eliciting helper-dependent CD8+ T cell responses. Here we investigated the effects of in vivo CD40 stimulation on the survival and function of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in a mouse melanoma model system. We found that agonistic anti-CD40 antibody treatment alone of tumor-bearing mice accelerated the deletion of tumor-antigen-specific T cells. However, long-term survival and function of tumor-antigen-specific T cells could be achieved when viral immunization with tumor antigen and anti-CD40 treatment were combined. This rescue of CD8+ T cells could not be easily replicated by inflammatory or antigen-specific stimuli alone, demonstrating the specificity of signals that regulate the deletion or survival of tumor-specific T cells. These results demonstrate that opposing effects can be elicited by CD40 stimulation in vivo and suggest the need for caution in using this treatment for cancer patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We assessed immunogenicity of a malaria DNA vaccine administered by needle i.m. or needleless jet injection [i.m. or i.m./intradermally (i.d.)] in 14 volunteers. Antigen-specific IFN-γ responses were detected by enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays in all subjects to multiple 9- to 23-aa peptides containing class I and/or class II restricted epitopes, and were dependent on both CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Overall, frequency of response was significantly greater after i.m. jet injection. CD8+-dependent cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) were detected in 8/14 volunteers. Demonstration in humans of elicitation of the class I restricted IFN-γ responses we believe necessary for protection against the liver stage of malaria parasites brings us closer to an effective malaria vaccine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Prostate cancer (PCa) is an androgen dependent disease that can be treated by androgen ablation therapy, and clinical trials are under way to prevent PCa through the reduction of androgen receptor (AR) activity. However, there are no animal models of AR-mediated prostatic neoplasia, and it remains unclear whether the AR is a positive or negative regulator of cell growth in normal prostate secretory epithelium. To assess the direct effects of the AR in prostate epithelium, a murine AR transgene regulated by the rat probasin promoter (Pb) was used to generate transgenic mice expressing increased levels of AR protein in prostate secretory epithelium. The prostates in younger (<1 year) Pb-mAR transgenic mice were histologically normal, but Ki-67 immunostaining revealed marked increases in epithelial proliferation in ventral prostate and dorsolateral prostate. Older (>1 year) transgenic mice developed focal areas of intraepithelial neoplasia strongly resembling human high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN), a precursor to PCa. These results demonstrate that the AR is a positive regulator of cell growth in normal prostate epithelium and provide a model system of AR-stimulated PIN that can be used for assessing preventative hormonal therapies and for identifying secondary transforming events relevant to human PCa.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Plasmodium falciparum translationally controlled tumor protein (TCTP) is a homolog of the mammalian histamine-releasing factor (HRF), which causes histamine release from human basophils and IL-8 secretion from eosinophils. Histamine, IL-8, and eosinophils have been reported to be elevated in patients with malaria. This study was undertaken to determine whether malarial TCTP is found in the plasma of malaria-infected patients and to determine whether it has HRF biologic activity. Malarial TCTP was found in lightly infected human volunteers and in heavily infected Malawian children, but not in uninfected patients. Recombinant malarial TCTP, like HRF, stimulated histamine release from basophils and IL-8 secretion from eosinophils in vitro. Whereas malarial TCTP was less active than HRF, the concentrations that were effective in vitro could be achievable in vivo. These data suggest that malarial TCTP, present in human plasma during a malarial illness, may affect host immune responses in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many chemotherapeutic agents induce mitochondrial-membrane disruption to initiate apoptosis. However, the upstream events leading to drug-induced mitochondrial perturbation have remained poorly defined. We have used a variety of physiological and pharmacological inhibitors of distinct apoptotic pathways to analyze the manner by which suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA), a chemotherapeutic agent and histone deacetylase inhibitor, induces cell death. We demonstrate that SAHA initiates cell death by inducing mitochondria-mediated death pathways characterized by cytochrome c release and the production of reactive oxygen species, and does not require the activation of key caspases such as caspase-8 or -3. We provide evidence that mitochondrial disruption is achieved by means of the cleavage of the BH3-only proapoptotic Bcl-2 family member Bid. SAHA-induced Bid cleavage was not blocked by caspase inhibitors or the overexpression of Bcl-2 but did require the transcriptional regulatory activity of SAHA. These data provide evidence of a mechanism of cell death mediated by transcriptional events that result in the cleavage of Bid, disruption of the mitochondrial membrane, and production of reactive oxygen species to induce cell death.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The stem cells that maintain human colon crypts are poorly characterized. To better determine stem cell numbers and how they divide, epigenetic patterns were used as cell fate markers. Methylation exhibits somatic inheritance and random changes that potentially record lifelong stem cell division histories as binary strings or tags in adjacent CpG sites. Methylation tag contents of individual crypts were sampled with bisulfite sequencing at three presumably neutral loci. Methylation increased with aging but varied between crypts and was mosaic within single crypts. Some crypts appeared to be quasi-clonal as they contained more unique tags than expected if crypts were maintained by single immortal stem cells. The complex epigenetic patterns were more consistent with a crypt niche model wherein multiple stem cells were present and replaced through periodic symmetric divisions. Methylation tags provide evidence that normal human crypts are long-lived, accumulate random methylation errors, and contain multiple stem cells that go through “bottlenecks” during life.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Excessive nitric oxide (NO) production in cytokine-activated β cells has been implicated in β cell disruption in type 1 diabetes. β cells are very vulnerable to NO-induced apoptosis. However, the mechanism underlying this phenomenon is unclear. Low concentrations of NO that lead to apoptosis apparently do not cause severe DNA damage in mouse MIN6 β cells. CHOP, a C/EBP homologous protein that is induced by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and plays a role in growth arrest and cell death, was induced by a NO donor, S-nitroso-N-acetyl-d,l-penicillamine (SNAP). SNAP increased cytosolic Ca2+, and only agents depleting ER Ca2+ induced CHOP expression and led to apoptosis, suggesting that NO depletes ER Ca2+. Overexpression of calreticulin increased the Ca2+ content of ER and afforded protection to cells against NO-mediated apoptosis. Furthermore, pancreatic islets from CHOP knockout mice showed resistance to NO. We conclude that NO depletes ER Ca2+, causes ER stress, and leads to apoptosis. Thus, ER Ca2+ stores are a new target of NO, and the ER stress pathway is a major mechanism of NO-mediated β cell apoptosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The most common primary tumors of the human brain are thought to be of glial cell origin. However, glial cell neoplasms cannot be fully classified by cellular morphology or with conventional markers for astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, or their progenitors. Recent insights into central nervous system tumorigenesis suggest that novel molecular markers might be found among factors that have roles in glial development. Oligodendrocyte lineage genes (Olig1/2) encode basic helix–loop–helix transcription factors. In the rodent central nervous system, they are expressed exclusively in oligodendrocytes and oligodendrocyte progenitors, and Olig1 can promote formation of an chondroitin sulfate proteoglycon-positive glial progenitor. Here we show that human OLIG genes are expressed strongly in oligodendroglioma, contrasting absent or low expression in astrocytoma. Our data provide evidence that neoplastic cells of oligodendroglioma resemble oligodendrocytes or their progenitor cells and may derive from cells of this lineage. They further suggest the diagnostic potential of OLIG markers to augment identification of oligodendroglial tumors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Antiangiogenic agents block the effects of tumor-derived angiogenic factors (paracrine factors), such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), on endothelial cells (EC), inhibiting the growth of solid tumors. However, whether inhibition of angiogenesis also may play a role in liquid tumors is not well established. We recently have shown that certain leukemias not only produce VEGF but also selectively express functional VEGF receptors (VEGFRs), such as VEGFR-2 (Flk-1, KDR) and VEGFR1 (Flt1), resulting in the generation of an autocrine loop. Here, we examined the relative contribution of paracrine (EC-dependent) and autocrine (EC-independent) VEGF/VEGFR signaling pathways, by using a human leukemia model, where autocrine and paracrine VEGF/VEGFR loops could be selectively inhibited by neutralizing mAbs specific for murine EC (paracrine pathway) or human tumor (autocrine) VEGFRs. Blocking either the paracrine or the autocrine VEGF/VEGFR-2 pathway delayed leukemic growth and engraftment in vivo, but failed to cure inoculated mice. Long-term remission with no evidence of disease was achieved only if mice were treated with mAbs against both murine and human VEGFR-2, whereas mAbs against human or murine VEGFR-1 had no effect on mice survival. Therefore, effective antiangiogenic therapies to treat VEGF-producing, VEGFR-expressing leukemias may require blocking both paracrine and autocrine VEGF/VEGFR-2 angiogenic loops to achieve remission and long-term cure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Presenilin 1 (PS1) is required for the proteolytic processing of Notch and the β-amyloid precursor protein (APP), molecules that play pivotal roles in cell-fate determination during development and Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis, respectively. In addition, PS1 interacts with β-catenin and promotes its turnover through independent mechanisms. Consistent with this activity, we report here that PS1 is important in controlling epidermal cell proliferation in vivo. PS1 knockout mice that are rescued through neuronal expression of human PS1 transgene develop spontaneous skin cancers. PS1-null keratinocytes exhibit higher cytosolic β-catenin and β-catenin/lymphoid enhancer factor-1/T cell factor (β-catenin/LEF)-mediated signaling. This effect can be reversed by reintroducing wild-type PS1, but not a PS1 mutant active in Notch processing but defective in β-catenin binding. Nuclear β-catenin protein can be detected in tumors. Elevated β-catenin/LEF signaling is correlated with activation of its downstream target cyclin D1 and accelerated entry from G1 into S phase of the cell cycle. This report demonstrates a function of PS1 in adult tissues, and our analysis suggests that deregulation of β-catenin pathway contributes to the skin tumor phenotype.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The purpose of this study was to classify breast carcinomas based on variations in gene expression patterns derived from cDNA microarrays and to correlate tumor characteristics to clinical outcome. A total of 85 cDNA microarray experiments representing 78 cancers, three fibroadenomas, and four normal breast tissues were analyzed by hierarchical clustering. As reported previously, the cancers could be classified into a basal epithelial-like group, an ERBB2-overexpressing group and a normal breast-like group based on variations in gene expression. A novel finding was that the previously characterized luminal epithelial/estrogen receptor-positive group could be divided into at least two subgroups, each with a distinctive expression profile. These subtypes proved to be reasonably robust by clustering using two different gene sets: first, a set of 456 cDNA clones previously selected to reflect intrinsic properties of the tumors and, second, a gene set that highly correlated with patient outcome. Survival analyses on a subcohort of patients with locally advanced breast cancer uniformly treated in a prospective study showed significantly different outcomes for the patients belonging to the various groups, including a poor prognosis for the basal-like subtype and a significant difference in outcome for the two estrogen receptor-positive groups.
DOC DONE!Abstract
HIV-1 Gag protein assembles into 100- to 120-nm diameter particles in mammalian cells. Recombinant HIV-1 Gag protein assembles in a fully defined system in vitro into particles that are only 25–30 nm in diameter and that differ significantly in other respects from authentic particles. However, particles with the size and other properties of authentic virions were obtained in vitro by addition of inositol phosphates or phosphatidylinsitol phosphates to the assembly system. Thus, the interactions between HIV-1 Gag protein molecules are altered by binding of inositol derivatives; this binding is apparently essential for normal HIV-1 particle assembly. This requirement is not seen in a deleted Gag protein lacking residues 16–99 within the matrix domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Infection with pathogenic microbes often results in a significant inflammatory response. A cascade of proinflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and IL-1 initiates this response. Although there is a clear role for IL-1 during infection, little is known to distinguish the role of IL-1α from that of IL-1β during this process. With the use of Yersinia enterocolitica as a model enteric pathogen, we have identified a specific role for IL-1α in inducing pathologic inflammation during bacterial infection. Depletion of IL-1α in mice infected with wild-type Y. enterocolitica results in significantly decreased intestinal inflammation. Furthermore, a bacterial mutant that does not induce IL-1α expression but induces normal levels of IL-1β, TNF-α, and IFN-γ, causes greatly reduced intestinal inflammation and is attenuated by LD50 analysis in the C57BL/6 mouse model. These results demonstrate a distinct and unrecognized role for IL-1α in inducing intestinal inflammation that cannot be compensated for by the endogenous levels of IL-1β, TNF-α, or IFN-γ that are produced in response to Y. enterocolitica. Additionally, these results suggest that IL-1α-induced inflammation is a major contributor to the pathology of yersiniosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The blanket resistance of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus to all β-lactam antibiotics—which had such a devastating impact on chemotherapy of staphylococcal infections—is related to the properties of the key component of this resistance mechanism: the “acquired” penicillin-binding protein (PBP)-2A, which has unusual low affinity for all β-lactam antibiotics. Until now, the accepted model of resistance implied that in the presence of β-lactam antibiotics in the surrounding medium, PBP2A must take over the biosynthesis of staphylococcal cell wall from the four native staphylococcal PBPs because the latter become rapidly acylated and inactivated at even low concentrations of the antibiotic. However, recent observations indicate that this model requires revision. Inactivation of the transglycosylase domain, but not the transpeptidase domain, of PBP2 of S. aureus prevents expression of β-lactam resistance, despite the presence of the low-affinity PBP2A. The observations suggest that cell-wall synthesis in the presence of β-lactam antibiotics requires the cooperative functioning of the transglycosylase domain of the native staphylococcal PBP2 and the transpeptidase domain of the PBP2A, a protein imported by S. aureus from an extra species source.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We demonstrate the use of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans as a facile and inexpensive model host for several Gram-positive human bacterial pathogens. Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Staphylococcus aureus, but not Bacillus subtilis, Enterococcus faecium, or Streptococcus pyogenes, kill adult C. elegans. Focusing our studies on the enterococcal species, we found that both E. faecalis and E. faecium kill C. elegans eggs and hatchlings, although only E. faecalis kills the adults. In the case of adults, a low inoculum of E. faecalis grows to a high titer in the C. elegans intestine, resulting in a persistent infection that cannot be eradicated by prolonged feeding on E. faecium. Interestingly, a high titer of E. faecium also accumulates in the nematode gut, but does not affect the longevity of the worms. Two E. faecalis virulence-related factors that play an important role in mammalian models of infection, fsr, a putative quorum-sensing system, and cytolysin, are also important for nematode killing. We exploit the apparent parallels between Gram-positive infection in simple and more complex organisms by using the nematode to identify an E. faecalis virulence factor, ScrB, which is relevant to mammalian pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Amphotropic murine leukemia virus (MLV) replicates in cells from various mammalian species, including humans, and is a potential contaminant in MLV vector preparations for human gene transfer studies. The generation of replication-competent virus is considered less likely with vectors that delete the viral transcription elements. This conclusion is based on data obtained in rodents, where MLV replication depends on the expression of viral genes under the control of 75-bp enhancer elements in the long terminal repeat. We demonstrate here that in some human cells replication of amphotropic MLV is possible in the absence of these enhancer elements. Replication of the enhancer-deficient virus MLV-(MOA)ΔE is observed in selected human sarcoma and B lymphoma lines and proceeds at a lower rate than that of the intact virus. No insertion of a foreign promoter or enhancer into the long terminal repeat was detected. Our data suggest the presence of a secondary enhancer element within the MLV provirus that can in selected human cells mediate virus transcription and replication in the absence of the 75-bp U3 enhancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been widely used for imaging brain functions. However, the extent of the fMRI hemodynamic response around the active sites, at submillimeter resolution, remains poorly understood and controversial. With the use of perfusion-based fMRI, we evaluated the hemodynamic response in the cat visual cortex after orientation-specific stimuli. Activation maps obtained by using cerebral blood flow fMRI measurements were predominantly devoid of large draining vein contamination and reproducible at columnar resolution. Stimulus-specific cerebral blood flow responses were spatially localized to individual cortical columns, and columnar layouts were resolved. The periodic spacing of orientation columnar structures was estimated to be 1.1 ± 0.2 mm (n = 14 orientations, five animals), consistent with previous findings. The estimated cerebral blood flow response at full width at half-maximum was 470 μm under single-stimulus conditions without differential subtraction. These results suggest that hemodynamic-based fMRI can indeed be used to map individual functional columns if large-vessel contributions can be minimized or eliminated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previously we reported that new neurons are added to the hippocampus and neocortex of adult macaque monkeys. Here we compare the production and survival of adult-generated neurons and glia in the dentate gyrus, prefrontal cortex, and inferior temporal cortex. Twelve adult macaques were injected with the thymidine analogue BrdUrd, and the phenotypes of labeled cells were examined after 2 h, 24 h, 2 wk, 5 wk, 9 wk, and 12 wk by using the following immunocytochemical markers: for immature and mature neurons, class III β-tubulin (TuJ1); for mature neurons, neuronal nuclei; for astrocytes, glial fibrillary acidic protein; and for oligodendrocytes, 2′,3′-cyclic nucleotide 3′ phosphodiesterase. We found that the dentate gyrus had many more BrdUrd-labeled cells than either neocortical area. Furthermore, a greater percentage of BrdUrd-labeled cells expressed a neuronal marker in the dentate gyrus than in either neocortical area. The number of new cells in all three areas declined by 9 wk after BrdUrd labeling, suggesting that some of the new cells have a transient existence. BrdUrd-labeled cells also were found in the subventricular zone and in the white matter between the lateral ventricle and neocortex; some of the latter cells were double-labeled for BrdUrd and TuJ1. Adult neocortical neurogenesis is not restricted to primates. Five adult rats were injected with BrdUrd, and after a 3-wk survival time, there were cells double-labeled for BrdUrd and either TuJ1 or neuronal nuclei in the anterior neocortex as well as the dentate gyrus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector delivery of an Apaf-1-dominant negative inhibitor was tested for its antiapoptotic effect on degenerating nigrostriatal neurons in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of Parkinson's disease. The wild-type caspase recruitment domain of Apaf-1 was used as a dominant negative inhibitor of Apaf-1 (rAAV-Apaf-1-DN-EGFP). An AAV virus vector was used to deliver it into the striatum of C57 black mice, and the animals were treated with MPTP. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra was not changed on the rAAV-Apaf-1-DN-EGFP injected side compared with the noninjected side. We also examined the effect of a caspase 1 C285G mutant as a dominant negative inhibitor of caspase 1 (rAAV-caspase-1-DN-EGFP) in the same model. However, there was no difference in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons between the rAAV-caspase-1-DN-EGFP injected side and the noninjected side. These results indicate that delivery of Apaf-1-DN by using an AAV vector system can prevent nigrostriatal degeneration in MPTP mice, suggesting that it could be a promising therapeutic strategy for patients with Parkinson's disease. The major mechanism of dopaminergic neuronal death triggered by MPTP seems to be the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The homeostatic maintenance of the “modification threshold” for inducing long-term potentiation (LTP) is a fundamental feature of the Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) model of synaptic plasticity. In the present study, two key features of the modification threshold, its heterosynaptic expression and its regulation by postsynaptic neural activity, were tested experimentally in the dentate gyrus of awake, freely moving rats. Conditioning stimulation ranging from 10 to 1,440 brief 400-Hz trains, when applied to medial perforant path afferents, raised the threshold for LTP induction heterosynaptically in the neighboring lateral perforant path synapses. This effect recovered slowly over a 7- to 35-day period. The same conditioning paradigms, however, did not affect the reversal of long-term depression. The inhibition of LTP by medial-path conditioning stimulation was N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent, but antidromic stimulation of the granule cells could also inhibit lateral path LTP induction, independently of NMDA receptor activation. Increased calcium buffering is a potential mechanism underlying the altered LTP threshold, but the levels of two important calcium-binding proteins did not increase after conditioning stimulation, nor was de novo protein synthesis required for generating the threshold shift. These data confirm, in an in vivo model, two key postulates of the BCM model regarding the LTP threshold. They also provide further evidence for the broad sensitivity of synaptic plasticity mechanisms to the history of prior activity, i.e., metaplasticity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tyrosine kinases are expressed in many tissues, particularly in the central nervous system, and regulate various cellular functions. We report here that a src family tyrosine kinase-specific inhibitor, PP2, enhances neurotransmitter release from PC12 cells and primary cultured neurons. PP2 enhances only Ca2+-dependent release; it does not affect basal release. These effects result from an enhancement of vesicular exocytosis and not from the reuptake or refilling of neurotransmitters because Ca2+-dependent secretion of an exogenously expressed reporter protein, the human growth hormone (hGH), is also enhanced by PP2. Overexpression of constitutive active v-src, but not of a kinase-inactive mutant, suppressed Ca2+-dependent release. In PP2-treated cells, Pyk2, paxillin, and some other proteins showed a decrease in tyrosine phosphorylation, and the enhancement of tyrosine phosphorylation of these proteins in response to Ca2+ influx was also reduced. Electron and fluorescence microscopy showed that PP2 treatment induced morphological change and decreased phalloidin reactivity at the filopodium-like structures on the processes of PC12 cells. Interestingly, inhibition of actin polymerization with cytochalasin D and latrunculin A enhanced Ca2+-dependent, but not basal, release. It is possible that a src family tyrosine kinase, through the regulation of actin dynamics, has an inhibitory function to regulate neurotransmitter release.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ser-133 phosphorylation of the cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) is sufficient to induce cellular gene expression in response to cAMP, but additional promoter-bound factors are required for target gene activation by CREB in response to mitogen/stress signals. To compare the relative effects of different signals on recruitment of the coactivator CREB-binding protein (CBP) to CREB in living cells, we developed a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assay. cAMP promoted the interaction of CREB with CBP in a phosphorylation-dependent manner by FRET analysis, but mitogen/stress signals were far less effective in stimulating complex formation even though they induced comparable levels of Ser-133 phosphorylation. cAMP and non-cAMP stimuli were comparably active in promoting this interaction in the cytosol; the formation of CREB⋅CBP complexes in response to non-cAMP signals was specifically inhibited in the nucleus. Non-cAMP signals had no effect on intrinsic CREB- or CBP-binding activities by Far Western blot assay, thereby supporting the presence of a distinct CREB⋅CBP antagonist. Our studies indicate that the relative effects of cAMP and mitogen/stress signals on CREB⋅CBP complex formation impart selectivity to gene activation through CREB phosphorylated at Ser-133.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We demonstrate that the antimalarial drug quinine specifically reduces currents through gap junctions formed by some connexins (Cx) in transfected mammalian cells, but does not affect other gap junction types. Quinine blocked Cx36 and Cx50 junctional currents in a reversible and concentration-dependent manner with half maximal blocking concentrations of 32 and 73 μM, respectively; Hill coefficients for block by quinine were about 2 for both connexins. In contrast, quinine did not substantially block gap junction channels formed by Cx26, Cx32, Cx40, and Cx43, and only moderately affected Cx45 junctions. To determine the location of the binding site of quinine (pKa = 8.7), we investigated the effect of quinine at various external and internal pH values and the effect of a permanently charged quaternary derivative of quinine. Our results indicate that the binding site for quinine is intracellular, possibly within the pore. Single-channel studies indicated that exposure to quinine induced slow transitions between open and fully closed states that decreased open probability of the channel. Quinine thus offers a potentially useful method to block certain types of gap junction channels, including those between neurons that are formed by Cx36. Moreover, quinine derivatives that are excluded from other types of membrane channels may provide molecules with connexin-specific as well as connexin-selective blocking activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In exocrine acinar cells, Ca2+-activated Cl− channels in the apical membrane are essential for fluid secretion, but it is unclear whether such channels are important for Cl− uptake at the base. Whole-cell current recording, combined with local uncaging of caged Ca2+, was used to reveal the Cl− channel distribution in mouse pancreatic acinar cells, where ≈90% of the current activated by Ca2+ in response to acetylcholine was carried by Cl−. When caged Ca2+ in the cytosol was uncaged locally in the apical pole, the Cl− current was activated, whereas local Ca2+ uncaging in the basal or lateral areas of the cell had no effect. Even when Ca2+ was uncaged along the whole inner surface of the basolateral membrane, no Cl− current was elicited. There was little current deactivation at a high cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]c), but at a low [Ca2+]c there was clear voltage-dependent deactivation, which increased with hyperpolarization. Functional Ca2+-activated Cl− channels are expressed exclusively in the apical membrane and channel opening is strictly regulated by [Ca2+]c and membrane potential. Ca2+-activated Cl− channels do not mediate Cl− uptake at the base, but acetylcholine-elicited local [Ca2+]c spiking in the apical pole can regulate fluid secretion by controlling the opening of these channels in the apical membrane.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To elucidate the nature of plant response to infection and transformation by Agrobacterium tumefaciens, we compared the cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) pattern of Agrobacterium- and mock-inoculated Ageratum conyzoides plant cell cultures. From 16,000 cDNA fragments analyzed, 251 (1.6%) were differentially regulated (0.5% down-regulated) 48 h after cocultivation with Agrobacterium. From 75 strongly regulated fragments, 56 were already regulated 24 h after cocultivation. Sequence similarities were obtained for 20 of these fragments, and reverse transcription–PCR analysis was carried out with seven to confirm their cDNA-AFLP differential pattern. Their sequence similarities suggest a role for these genes in signal perception, transduction, and plant defense. Reverse transcription–PCR analysis indicated that four genes involved in defense response are regulated in a similar manner by nonpathogenic bacteria, whereas one gene putatively involved in signal transduction appeared to respond more strongly to Agrobacterium. A nodulin-like gene was regulated only by Agrobacterium. These results demonstrate a rapid plant cell response to Agrobacterium infection, which overlaps a general response to bacteria but also has Agrobacterium-specific features.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In Arabidopsis, monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) is synthesized by a multigenic family of MGDG synthases consisting of two types of enzymes differing in their N-terminal portion: type A (atMGD1) and type B (atMGD2 and atMGD3). The present paper compares type B isoforms with the enzymes of type A that are known to sit in the inner membrane of plastid envelope. The occurrence of types A and B in 16:3 and 18:3 plants shows that both types are not specialized isoforms for the prokaryotic and eukaryotic glycerolipid biosynthetic pathways. Type A atMGD1 gene is abundantly expressed in green tissues and along plant development and encodes the most active enzyme. Its mature polypeptide is immunodetected in the envelope of chloroplasts from Arabidopsis leaves after cleavage of its transit peptide. atMGD1 is therefore likely devoted to the massive production of MGDG required to expand the inner envelope membrane and build up the thylakoids network. Transient expression of green fluorescent protein fusions in Arabidopsis leaves and in vitro import experiments show that type B precursors are targeted to plastids, owing to a different mechanism. Noncanonical addressing peptides, whose processing could not be assessed, are involved in the targeting of type B precursors, possibly to the outer envelope membrane where they might contribute to membrane expansion. Expression of type B enzymes was higher in nongreen tissues, i.e., in inflorescence (atMGD2) and roots (atMGD3), where they conceivably influence the eukaryotic structure prominence in MGDG. In addition, their expression of type B enzymes is enhanced under phosphate deprivation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuropathology studies show that patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease typically have lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC), hippocampus (Hip), and temporal neocortex. Related observations with in vivo imaging have enabled the prediction of dementia from MCI. Although individuals with normal cognition may have focal EC lesions, this anatomy has not been studied as a predictor of cognitive decline and brain change. The objective of this MRI-guided 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose/positron-emission tomography (FDG/PET) study was to examine the hypothesis that among normal elderly subjects, EC METglu reductions predict decline and the involvement of the Hip and neocortex. In a 3-year longitudinal study of 48 healthy normal elderly, 12 individuals (mean age 72) demonstrated cognitive decline (11 to MCI and 1 to Alzheimer's disease). Nondeclining controls were matched on apolipoprotein E genotype, age, education, and gender. At baseline, metabolic reductions in the EC accurately predicted the conversion from normal to MCI. Among those who declined, the baseline EC predicted longitudinal memory and temporal neocortex metabolic reductions. At follow-up, those who declined showed memory impairment and hypometabolism in temporal lobe neocortex and Hip. Among those subjects who declined, apolipoprotein E E4 carriers showed marked longitudinal temporal neocortex reductions. In summary, these data suggest that an EC stage of brain involvement can be detected in normal elderly that predicts future cognitive and brain metabolism reductions. Progressive E4-related hypometabolism may underlie the known increased susceptibility for dementia. Further study is required to estimate individual risks and to determine the physiologic basis for METglu changes detected while cognition is normal.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The heme oxygenase (HO) and nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS)
 systems display notable similarities as well as differences. HO and NOS
 are both oxidative enzymes using NADPH as an electron donor. The
 constitutive forms of the enzyme are differentially activated, with
 calcium entry stimulating NOS by binding to calmodulin,
 whereas calcium entry activates protein kinase C to phosphorylate and
 activate HO2. Although both NO and carbon monoxide (CO) stimulate
 soluble guanylyl cyclase to form cGMP, NO also S-nitrosylates selected
 protein targets. Both involve constitutive and inducible biosynthetic
 enzymes. However, functions of the inducible forms are virtual
 opposites. Macrophage-inducible NOS generates NO to kill other cells,
 whereas HO1 generates bilirubin to exert antioxidant cytoprotective
 effects and also provides cytoprotection by facilitating iron extrusion
 from cells. The neuronal form of HO, HO2, is also cytoprotective.
 Normally, neural NO in the brain seems to exert some sort of behavioral
 inhibition. However, excess release of NO in response to glutamate's
 N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor activation
 leads to stroke damage. On the other hand, massive neuronal firing
 during a stroke presumably activates HO2, leading to neuroprotective
 actions of bilirubin. Loss of this neuroprotection after HO inhibition
 by mutant forms of amyloid precursor protein may mediate neurotoxicity
 in Familial Alzheimer's Disease. NO and CO both appear to be
 neurotransmitters in the brain and peripheral autonomic nervous system.
 They also are physiologic endothelial-derived relaxing factors for
 blood vessels. In the gastrointestinal pathway, NO and CO appear to
 function as coneurotransmitters, both stimulating soluble guanylyl
 cyclase to cause smooth muscle relaxation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hippocampal mossy fibers, which are the axons of dentate
 granule cells, form powerful excitatory synapses onto the proximal
 dendrites of CA3 pyramidal cells. It has long been known that
 high-affinity binding sites for kainate, a glutamate receptor agonist,
 are present on mossy fibers. Here we summarize recent experiments on
 the role of these presynaptic kainate receptors (KARs). Application of
 kainate has a direct effect on the amplitude of the extracellularly
 recorded fiber volley, with an enhancement by low concentrations and a
 depression by high concentrations. These effects are mediated by KARs,
 because they persist in the presence of the
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid
 receptor-selective antagonist GYKI 53655, but are blocked by the
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/KAR antagonist
 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and the KAR antagonist SYM2081.
 The effects on the fiber volley are most likely caused by a
 depolarization of the fibers via the known ionotropic actions of
 KARs, because application of potassium mimics the effects. In addition
 to these effects on fiber excitability, low concentrations of kainate
 enhance transmitter release, whereas high concentrations depress
 transmitter release. Importantly, the synaptic release of glutamate
 from mossy fibers also activates these presynaptic KARs, causing an
 enhancement of the fiber volley and a facilitation of release that
 lasts for many seconds. This positive feedback contributes to the
 dramatic frequency facilitation that is characteristic of mossy fiber
 synapses. It will be interesting to determine how widespread
 facilitatory presynaptic KARs are at other synapses in the central
 nervous system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transcellular retrograde signaling from the postsynaptic target
 cell to the presynaptic neuron plays critical roles in the formation,
 maturation, and plasticity of synaptic connections. We here review
 recent progress in our understanding of the retrograde signaling at
 developing central synapses. Three forms of potential retrograde
 signals—membrane-permeant factors, membrane-bound factors, and
 secreted factors—have been implicated at both developing and mature
 synapses. Although many of these signals may be active constitutively,
 retrograde factors produced in association with activity-dependent
 synaptic plasticity, e.g., long-term potentiation and long-term
 depression, are of particular interest, because they may induce
 modification of neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission,
 functions directly related to the processing and storage of information
 in the nervous system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neural signaling is based on the regulated timing and extent of
 channel opening; therefore, it is important to understand how ion
 channels open and close in response to neurotransmitters and
 intracellular messengers. Here, we examine this question for potassium
 channels, an extraordinarily diverse group of ion channels.
 Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels control action-potential
 waveforms and neuronal firing patterns by opening and closing in
 response to membrane-potential changes. These effects can be strongly
 modulated by cytoplasmic factors such as kinases, phosphatases, and
 small GTPases. A Kv α subunit contains six transmembrane segments,
 including an intrinsic voltage sensor. In contrast, inwardly rectifying
 potassium (Kir) channels have just two transmembrane segments in each
 of its four pore-lining α subunits. A variety of intracellular second
 messengers mediate transmitter and metabolic regulation of Kir
 channels. For example, Kir3 (GIRK) channels open on binding to the G
 protein βγ subunits, thereby mediating slow inhibitory postsynaptic
 potentials in the brain. Our structure-based functional analysis on the
 cytoplasmic N-terminal tetramerization domain T1 of the voltage-gated
 channel, Kv1.2, uncovered a new function for this domain, modulation of
 voltage gating, and suggested a possible means of communication between
 second messenger pathways and Kv channels. A yeast screen for active
 Kir3.2 channels subjected to random mutagenesis has identified residues
 in the transmembrane segments that are crucial for controlling the
 opening of Kir3.2 channels. The identification of structural elements
 involved in potassium channel gating in these systems highlights
 principles that may be important in the regulation of other types of
 channels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plasticity is a remarkable feature of the brain, allowing neuronal
 structure and function to accommodate to patterns of electrical
 activity. One component of these long-term changes is the
 activity-driven induction of new gene expression, which is required for
 both the long-lasting long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission
 associated with learning and memory, and the activitydependent
 survival events that help to shape and wire the brain during
 development. We have characterized molecular mechanisms by which
 neuronal membrane depolarization and subsequent calcium influx into the
 cytoplasm lead to the induction of new gene transcription. We have
 identified three points within this cascade of events where the
 specificity of genes induced by different types of stimuli can be
 regulated. By using the induction of the gene that encodes
 brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as a model, we have found that
 the ability of a calcium influx to induce transcription of this gene is
 regulated by the route of calcium entry into the cell, by the pattern
 of phosphorylation induced on the transcription factor cAMP-response
 element (CRE) binding protein (CREB), and by the complement of active
 transcription factors recruited to the BDNF promoter.
 These results refine and expand the working model of activity-induced
 gene induction in the brain, and help to explain how different types of
 neuronal stimuli can activate distinct transcriptional responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Changes in the environment cause both short-term and long-term
 changes in an animal's behavior. Here we show that specific sensory
 experiences cause changes in chemosensory receptor gene expression that
 may alter sensory perception in the nematode
 Caenorhabditis elegans. Three predicted
 chemosensory receptor genes expressed in the ASI chemosensory neurons,
 srd-1, str-2, and str-3,
 are repressed by exposure to the dauer pheromone, a signal of crowding.
 Repression occurs at pheromone concentrations below those that induce
 formation of the alternative dauer larva stage, suggesting that
 exposure to pheromones can alter the chemosensory behaviors of
 non-dauer animals. In addition, ASI expression of srd-1,
 but not str-2 and str-3, is induced by
 sensory activity of the ASI neurons. Expression of two receptor genes
 is regulated by developmental entry into the dauer larva stage.
 srd-1 expression in ASI neurons is repressed in dauer
 larvae. str-2 expression in dauer animals is induced in
 the ASI neurons, but repressed in the AWC neurons. The ASI and AWC
 neurons remodel in the dauer stage, and these results suggest that
 their sensory specificity changes as well. We suggest that
 experience-dependent changes in chemosensory receptor gene expression
 may modify olfactory behaviors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Elucidation of the proteolytic processing of the amyloid
 β-protein precursor (APP) has revealed that one of the two proteases
 (γ-secretase) that cleave APP to release amyloid β-protein
 (Aβ) is likely to be presenilin. Presenilin also mediates the
 γ-secretase-like cleavage of Notch receptors to enable signaling by
 their cytoplasmic domains. Therefore, APP and Notch may be the
 first identified substrates of a unique intramembranous aspartyl
 protease that has presenilin as its active-site component. In view of
 the evidence for a central role of cerebral build-up of Aβ in the
 pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, this disorder appears to have
 arisen in the human population as a late-life consequence of the
 conservation of a critical developmental pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The longevity of some of the behavioral abnormalities that
 characterize drug addiction has suggested that regulation of neural
 gene expression may be involved in the process by which drugs of abuse
 cause a state of addiction. Increasing evidence suggests that the
 transcription factor ΔFosB represents one mechanism by which drugs of
 abuse produce relatively stable changes in the brain that contribute to
 the addiction phenotype. ΔFosB, a member of the Fos family of
 transcription factors, accumulates within a subset of neurons of the
 nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum (brain regions important for
 addiction) after repeated administration of many kinds of drugs of
 abuse. Similar accumulation of ΔFosB occurs after compulsive running,
 which suggests that ΔFosB may accumulate in response to many types of
 compulsive behaviors. Importantly, ΔFosB persists in neurons for
 relatively long periods of time because of its extraordinary stability.
 Therefore, ΔFosB represents a molecular mechanism that could initiate
 and then sustain changes in gene expression that persist long after
 drug exposure ceases. Studies in inducible transgenic mice that
 overexpress either ΔFosB or a dominant negative inhibitor of the
 protein provide direct evidence that ΔFosB causes increased
 sensitivity to the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse and, possibly,
 increased drug seeking behavior. This work supports the view that
 ΔFosB functions as a type of sustained “molecular switch” that
 gradually converts acute drug responses into relatively stable
 adaptations that contribute to the long-term neural and behavioral
 plasticity that underlies addiction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the brain, dopamine exerts an important modulatory influence
 over behaviors such as emotion, cognition, and affect as well as
 mechanisms of reward and the control of locomotion. The dopamine
 transporter (DAT), which reuptakes the released neurotransmitter into
 presynaptic terminals, is a major determinant of the intensity and
 duration of the dopaminergic signal. Knockout mice lacking the dopamine
 transporter (DAT-KO mice) display marked changes in dopamine
 homeostasis that result in elevated dopaminergic tone and pronounced
 locomotor hyperactivity. A feature of DAT-KO mice is that their
 hyperactivity can be inhibited by psychostimulants and serotonergic
 drugs. The pharmacological effect of these drugs occurs without any
 observable changes in dopaminergic parameters, suggesting that other
 neurotransmitter systems in addition to dopamine might contribute to
 the control of locomotion in these mice. We report here that the
 hyperactivity of DAT-KO mice can be markedly further enhanced when
 N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated
 glutamatergic transmission is blocked. Conversely, drugs that enhance
 glutamatergic transmission, such as positive modulators of
 l-α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate
 glutamate receptors, suppress the hyperactivity of DAT-KO mice.
 Interestingly, blockade of
 N- methyl-d-aspartate receptors prevented
 the inhibitory effects of both psychostimulant and serotonergic drugs
 on hyperactivity. These findings support the concept of a reciprocal
 functional interaction between dopamine and glutamate in the basal
 ganglia and suggest that agents modulating glutamatergic transmission
 may represent an approach to manage conditions associated with
 dopaminergic dysfunction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Zinc is coreleased with glutamate from excitatory nerve terminals
 throughout the central nervous system and acutely inhibits
 N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor
 activation. Here we report that cultured murine cortical neurons
 briefly exposed to sublethal concentrations of zinc developed increased
 intracellular free Na+, phosphorylation of Src kinase at
 tyrosine 220, and tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDA receptor 2A/2B
 subunits, in a fashion sensitive to the Src family kinase inhibitor
 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
 PP2. Functionally, this zinc exposure produced a delayed increase in
 NMDA receptor current in perforated patch but not conventional
 whole-cell recordings, as well as an increase in NMDA receptor-mediated
 cell death. These observations suggest that the effect of synaptically
 released zinc on neuronal NMDA receptors may be biphasic: acute block,
 followed by Src family kinase-mediated up-regulation of NMDA receptor
 activity and cytotoxicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a multifunctional neuronal
 protein kinase that is required for neurite outgrowth and cortical
 lamination and that plays an important role in dopaminergic signaling
 in the neostriatum through phosphorylation of Thr-75 of DARPP-32
 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, molecular mass 32 kDa).
 Casein kinase 1 (CK1) has been implicated in a variety of cellular
 functions such as DNA repair, circadian rhythm, and intracellular
 trafficking. In the neostriatum, CK1 has been found to phosphorylate
 Ser-137 of DARPP-32. However, first messengers for the regulation of
 Cdk5 or CK1 have remained unknown. Here we report that both Cdk5 and
 CK1 are regulated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in
 neostriatal neurons. (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), an agonist
 for group I mGluRs, increased Cdk5 and CK1 activities in neostriatal
 slices, leading to the enhanced phosphorylation of Thr-75 and Ser-137
 of DARPP-32, respectively. The effect of DHPG on Thr-75, but not on
 Ser-137, was blocked by a Cdk5-specific inhibitor, butyrolactone. In
 contrast, the effects of DHPG on both Thr-75 and Ser-137 were blocked
 by CK1–7 and IC261, specific inhibitors of CK1, suggesting that
 activation of Cdk5 by mGluRs requires CK1 activity. In support of this
 possibility, the DHPG-induced increase in Cdk5 activity, measured in
 extracts of neostriatal slices, was abolished by CK1–7 and IC261.
 Treatment of acutely dissociated neurons with DHPG enhanced
 voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents. This enhancement was
 eliminated by either butyrolactone or CK1–7 and was absent in DARPP-32
 knockout mice. Together these results indicate that a CK1-Cdk5-DARPP-32
 cascade may be involved in the regulation by mGluR agonists of
 Ca2+ channels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We introduce a family of fast ordered upwind methods for
 approximating solutions to a wide class of static Hamilton–Jacobi
 equations with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Standard techniques often
 rely on iteration to converge to the solution of a discretized version
 of the partial differential equation. Our fast methods avoid iteration
 through a careful use of information about the characteristic
 directions of the underlying partial differential equation. These
 techniques are of complexity O(M log
 M), where M is the total number of points
 in the domain. We consider anisotropic test problems in optimal
 control, seismology, and paths on surfaces.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The natural product neocarzinostatin (NCS), a protein–small
 molecule complex, exhibits potent antiproliferative activity in
 mammalian cells but has little apparent effect on the growth of the
 unicellular eukaryotic organism, Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae. Here, we show by whole-genome transcription
 profiling experiments that incubation of S. cerevisiae
 with NCS leads to dramatic and wide-ranging modifications in the
 expression profile of yeast genes. Approximately 18% of yeast
 transcripts are altered by 2-fold or more within 4 h of treatment
 with NCS. Analysis of the observed transcription profile provides
 evidence that yeast rapidly and continuously overexpress multiple
 DNA-damage repair genes during NCS exposure. Perhaps to meet the
 energetic requirements of continuous DNA-damage repair, yeast cells
 enter respiration upon prolonged exposure to NCS, although grown in
 nutrient-rich medium. The NCS protein component is readily transported
 into S. cerevisiae, as demonstrated by fluorescence
 microscopy of yeast treated with fluorescently labeled NCS.
 Transcription profiling experiments with neocarzinostatin protein alone
 implicate a specific resistance mechanism in yeast that targets the NCS
 protein component, one involving the nonclassical export pathway. These
 experiments provide a detailed picture of the effects of exposure to
 NCS upon yeast and the mechanisms they engage as a response to this
 protein–small molecule DNA-damaging agent.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nonequilibrium thermodynamics has shown its applicability in a wide
 variety of different situations pertaining to fields such as physics,
 chemistry, biology, and engineering. As successful as it is, however,
 its current formulation considers only systems close to equilibrium,
 those satisfying the so-called local equilibrium hypothesis. Here we
 show that diffusion processes that occur far away from equilibrium can
 be viewed as at local equilibrium in a space that includes all the
 relevant variables in addition to the spatial coordinate. In this way,
 nonequilibrium thermodynamics can be used and the difficulties and
 ambiguities associated with the lack of a thermodynamic description
 disappear. We analyze explicitly the inertial effects in diffusion and
 outline how the main ideas can be applied to other situations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The power of two-dimensional (2D) IR spectroscopy as a structural
 method with unprecedented time resolution is greatly improved by the
 introduction of IR polarization conditions that completely eliminate
 diagonal peaks from the spectra and leave only the crosspeaks needed
 for structure determination. This approach represents a key step
 forward in the applications of 2D IR to proteins, peptides, and other
 complex molecules where crosspeaks are often obscured by diagonal
 peaks. The technique is verified on the model compound
 1,3-cyclohexanedione and subsequently used to clarify the distribution
 of structures that the acetylproline-NH2 dipeptide adopts
 in chloroform. In both cases, crosspeaks are revealed that were not
 observed before, which, in the case of the dipeptide, has led to
 additional information about the structure of the amino group end of
 the peptide.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Selected prehistoric potsherds from the deepest cultural level of
 the oldest known archaeological site in the Kingdom of Tonga, within
 the Eastern Lapita province of western Polynesia, display decorative
 motifs characteristic of the Western Lapita province of modern-day
 Island Melanesia, to the west. Most of the stylistically anomalous
 sherds contain temper sands exotic to Tonga but, in one case,
 petrographically indistinguishable from temper in a Lapita sherd
 recovered from the Santa Cruz Islands of Melanesia, and are inferred to
 record maritime transport of Lapita ceramics into Tonga from Melanesia
 far to the west. The non-Tongan sherds found on Tongatapu provide
 direct physical evidence for interisland transfer of earthenware
 ceramics between Western and Eastern Lapita provinces, and the Nukuleka
 site, where they occur, is interpreted as one of the founding
 settlements of Polynesia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Geomagnetic field reversals and changes in intensity are
 understandable from an energy standpoint as natural consequences of
 intermittent and/or variable nuclear fission chain reactions deep
 within the Earth. Moreover, deep-Earth production of helium, having
 3He/4He ratios within the range observed from
 deep-mantle sources, is demonstrated to be a consequence of nuclear
 fission. Numerical simulations of a planetary-scale geo-reactor were
 made by using the SCALE sequence of codes. The results clearly
 demonstrate that such a geo-reactor (i) would function
 as a fast-neutron fuel breeder reactor; (ii) could,
 under appropriate conditions, operate over the entire period of
 geologic time; and (iii) would function in such a manner
 as to yield variable and/or intermittent output power.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the layered cuprate perovskites, the occurrence of
 high-temperature superconductivity seems deeply related to the unusual
 nature of the hole excitations. The limiting case of a very small
 number of holes diffusing in the antiferromagnetic (AF) background may
 provide important insights into this problem. We have investigated the
 transport properties in a series of crystals of
 YBa2Cu3Oy, and found that the
 temperature dependencies of the Hall coefficient
 RH and thermopower S change
 abruptly as soon as the AF phase boundary is crossed. In the AF state
 at low temperatures T, both
 RH and S are unexpectedly
 suppressed to nearly zero over a broad interval of T. We
 argue that this suppression arises from near-exact symmetry in the
 particle-hole currents. From the trends in
 RH and S, we infer that the
 symmetry is increasingly robust as the hole density x
 becomes very small (x ≃ 0.01). We discuss
 implications for electronic properties both within the AF state and
 outside.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have searched for genes predisposing to bipolar disorder (BP) by
 studying individuals with the most extreme form of the affected
 phenotype, BP-I, ascertained from the genetically isolated population
 of the Central Valley of Costa Rica (CVCR). The results of a previous
 linkage analysis on two extended CVCR BP-I pedigrees, CR001 and CR004,
 and of linkage disequilibrium (LD) analyses of a CVCR population sample
 of BP-I patients implicated a candidate region on 18p11.3. We further
 investigated this region by creating a physical map and developing 4
 new microsatellite and 26 single-nucleotide polymorphism markers for
 typing in the pedigree and population samples. We report the results of
 fine-scale association analyses in the population sample, as well as
 evaluation of haplotypes in pedigree CR001. Our results suggest a
 candidate region containing six genes but also highlight the
 complexities of LD mapping of common disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The discovery of later Middle Pleistocene human remains from the
 Bau de l'Aubesier, France reinforces an evolutionary model of the
 gradual accumulation of Neandertal-derived facial and dental features
 during the Middle Pleistocene of the northwestern Old World. The
 pronounced maxillary incisor beveling of Aubesier 4 helps to extend the
 antiquity of nondietary use of the anterior dentition. The
 interproximal “toothpick” groove on the Aubesier 10 molar
 increases the sample for these lesions. The pathological loss of the
 mandibular dentition of Aubesier 11 indicates advanced antemortem
 masticatory impairment, at a level previously undocumented before the
 Late Pleistocene. These remains support a view of later Middle
 Pleistocene humans able to support debilitated individuals despite the
 considerable use of their bodies to accomplish routine activities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Selected prehistoric potsherds from the deepest cultural level of
 the oldest known archaeological site in the Kingdom of Tonga, within
 the Eastern Lapita province of western Polynesia, display decorative
 motifs characteristic of the Western Lapita province of modern-day
 Island Melanesia, to the west. Most of the stylistically anomalous
 sherds contain temper sands exotic to Tonga but, in one case,
 petrographically indistinguishable from temper in a Lapita sherd
 recovered from the Santa Cruz Islands of Melanesia, and are inferred to
 record maritime transport of Lapita ceramics into Tonga from Melanesia
 far to the west. The non-Tongan sherds found on Tongatapu provide
 direct physical evidence for interisland transfer of earthenware
 ceramics between Western and Eastern Lapita provinces, and the Nukuleka
 site, where they occur, is interpreted as one of the founding
 settlements of Polynesia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cooperation between individuals requires the ability to infer each
 other's mental states to form shared expectations over mutual gains
 and make cooperative choices that realize these gains. From evidence
 that the ability for mental state attribution involves the use of
 prefrontal cortex, we hypothesize that this area is involved in
 integrating theory-of-mind processing with cooperative actions. We
 report data from a functional MRI experiment designed to test this
 hypothesis. Subjects in a scanner played standard two-person “trust
 and reciprocity” games with both human and computer counterparts for
 cash rewards. Behavioral data shows that seven subjects consistently
 attempted cooperation with their human counterpart. Within this group
 prefrontal regions are more active when subjects are playing a human
 than when they are playing a computer following a fixed (and known)
 probabilistic strategy. Within the group of five noncooperators, there
 are no significant differences in prefrontal activation between
 computer and human conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The discovery of later Middle Pleistocene human remains from the
 Bau de l'Aubesier, France reinforces an evolutionary model of the
 gradual accumulation of Neandertal-derived facial and dental features
 during the Middle Pleistocene of the northwestern Old World. The
 pronounced maxillary incisor beveling of Aubesier 4 helps to extend the
 antiquity of nondietary use of the anterior dentition. The
 interproximal “toothpick” groove on the Aubesier 10 molar
 increases the sample for these lesions. The pathological loss of the
 mandibular dentition of Aubesier 11 indicates advanced antemortem
 masticatory impairment, at a level previously undocumented before the
 Late Pleistocene. These remains support a view of later Middle
 Pleistocene humans able to support debilitated individuals despite the
 considerable use of their bodies to accomplish routine activities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To circumvent inherent problems associated with pulmonary
 administration of aqueous-solution and dry-powder protein drugs,
 inhalation delivery of proteins from their suspensions in absolute
 ethanol was explored both in vitro and in
 vivo. Protein suspensions in ethanol of up to 9% (wt/vol)
 were readily aerosolized with a commercial compressor nebulizer.
 Experiments with enzymic proteins revealed that nebulization caused no
 detectable loss of catalytic activity; furthermore, enzyme suspensions
 in anhydrous ethanol retained their full catalytic activity for at
 least 3 weeks at room temperature. With the use of
 Zn2+-insulin, conditions were elaborated that produced
 submicron protein particles in ethanol suspensions. The latter
 (insulin/EtOH) afforded respirable-size aerosol particles after
 nebulization. A 40-min exposure of laboratory rats to 10 mg/ml
 insulin/EtOH aerosols resulted in a 2-fold drop in the blood glucose
 level and a marked rise in the serum insulin level. The bioavailability
 based on estimated deposited lung dose of insulin delivered by
 inhalation of ethanol suspension aerosols was 33% (relative to an
 equivalent s.c. injection), i.e., comparable to those observed in rats
 after inhalation administration of dry powder and aqueous solutions of
 insulin. Inhalation of ethanol in a relevant amount/time frame
 resulted in no detectable acute toxic effects on rat lungs or airways,
 as reflected by the absence of statistically significant inflammatory
 or allergic responses, damage to the alveolar/capillary barrier, and
 lysed and/or damaged cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Sgs1 protein of the budding yeast Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae is a member of the RecQ DNA helicase family that
 includes the human Bloom, Werner, and Rothmund–Thompson syndrome
 proteins. The N-terminal region outside the central DNA helicase core
 of Sgs1, particularly the part containing the first 100 amino acid
 resiudes of the 1,447-residue protein, is known to be functionally
 important and has been implicated in Sgs1–DNA topoisomerase III (Top3)
 interaction. We show in this work that the functionality of a truncated
 Sgs1 lacking its N-terminal 106 residues can be restored by replacing
 the truncated region with Top3. Fusion of Top3 to a mutant Sgs1 with a
 Val-29 to Glu substitution, which interferes with Sgs1–Top3
 interaction, similarly restores the functionality of the mutant
 Sgs1(V29E) protein. The Top3-Sgs1(Δ1–106) and Top3-Sgs1(V29E) fusion
 proteins behave like wild-type Sgs1 in complementing several aspects of
 the sgs1 phenotype, including the hypersensitivity of
 sgs1 cells to methyl methanesulfonate and hydroxyurea.
 Complementation by the fusion proteins required both the topoisomerase
 activity of Top3 and the helicase activity of the Sgs1 polypeptide.
 These results suggest that the sole function of the N-terminal 106
 amino acid residues of Sgs1 is for Top3 binding, and that the
 coordinated actions of Sgs1 and Top3 are important in cellular
 processes such as the processing of DNA after exposure of cells to
 DNA-damaging agents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Conflicting roles for protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes in cardiac
 disease have been reported. Here, δPKC-selective activator and
 inhibitor peptides were designed rationally, based on molecular
 modeling and structural homology analyses. Together with previously
 identified activator and inhibitor peptides of ɛPKC, δPKC peptides
 were used to identify cardiac functions of these isozymes. In isolated
 cardiomyocytes, perfused hearts, and transgenic mice, δPKC and ɛPKC
 had opposing actions on protection from ischemia-induced damage.
 Specifically, activation of ɛPKC caused cardioprotection whereas
 activation of δPKC increased damage induced by ischemia in
 vitro and in vivo. In contrast, δPKC and
 ɛPKC caused identical nonpathological cardiac hypertrophy; activation
 of either isozyme caused nonpathological hypertrophy of the heart.
 These results demonstrate that two related PKC isozymes have both
 parallel and opposing effects in the heart, indicating the danger in
 the use of therapeutics with nonselective isozyme inhibitors and
 activators. Moreover, reduction in cardiac damage caused by ischemia by
 perfusion of selective regulator peptides of PKC through the coronary
 arteries constitutes a major step toward developing a therapeutic agent
 for acute cardiac ischemia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Translocation of the tRNA–mRNA complex is a fundamental step in
 the elongation cycle of protein synthesis. Our studies show that the
 ribosome can translocate a P-site-bound tRNAMet with a
 break in the phosphodiester backbone between positions 56 and 57 in the
 TΨC-loop. We have used this fragmented P-site-bound
 tRNAMet to identify two 2′-hydroxyl groups at positions 71
 and 76 in the 3′-acceptor arm that are essential for translocation.
 Crystallographic data show that the 2′-hydroxyl group at positions 71
 and 76 contacts the backbone of 23S rRNA residues 1892 and 2433–2434,
 respectively, in the ribosomal E site. These results establish a set of
 functional interactions between P-site tRNA and 23S rRNA that are
 essential for translocation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A metabolic mechanism for oxalic acid biosynthesis in the
 wood-rotting basidiomycete Fomitopsis palustris has been
 proposed on the basis of biochemical analyses of glucose metabolism.
 There was a strong correlation between glucose consumption and oxalate
 production. Oxalic acid was found to accumulate in the culture fluid in
 about 80% of the theoretical yield or about 5-fold, on the basis of
 the fungal biomass harvested. The results clearly indicate that glucose
 was not completely oxidized to CO2 by the tricarboxylic
 acid (TCA) cycle but converted mainly to oxalate. The determination of
 the 12 enzymes concerned has revealed the occurrence of the
 unprecedented metabolic coupling of the TCA and glyoxylate cycles that
 support oxalate biosynthesis. In this metabolic system, isocitrate
 lyase (EC 4.1.3.1), together with oxaloacetase (EC 3.7.1.1), was found
 to play a pivotal role in yielding oxalate from oxaloacetate via the
 acetate-recycling routes. Moreover, malate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.37),
 with an extraordinarily high activity among the enzymes tested, was
 shown to play an important role in generating NADH by oxidation of
 malate to oxaloacetate. Thus, it is proposed that the wood-rotting
 basidiomycete acquires biochemical energy by oxidizing glucose to
 oxalate.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), a noninhibitory member of
 the serpin superfamily, is the most potent inhibitor of angiogenesis in
 the mammalian ocular compartment. It also has neurotrophic activity,
 both in the retina and in the central nervous system, and is highly
 up-regulated in young versus senescent fibroblasts. To provide a
 structural basis for understanding its many biological roles, we have
 solved the crystal structure of glycosylated human PEDF to 2.85 Å. The
 structure revealed the organization of possible receptor and
 heparin-binding sites, and showed that, unlike any other previously
 characterized serpin, PEDF has a striking asymmetric charge
 distribution that might be of functional importance. These results
 provide a starting point for future detailed structure/function
 analyses into possible mechanisms of PEDF action that could lead to
 development of therapeutics against uncontrolled angiogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microorganisms produce iron-chelating compounds to sequester the
 iron essential for growth from the environment. Many of these compounds
 are biosynthesized by nonribosomal peptide synthetases, some in
 cooperation with polyketide synthases. Myxochelins are produced by the
 myxobacterium Stigmatella aurantiaca Sg a15, and the
 corresponding gene cluster was cloned recently. We have undertaken to
 express heterologously the myxochelin biosynthetic machinery in
 Escherichia coli. To activate the involved proteins
 posttranslationally, they were coexpressed with the
 phosphopantetheinyltransferase MtaA from the myxothiazol biosynthetic
 gene cluster. Phosphopantetheinylation of the carrier proteins could be
 verified by protein mass analysis. Six active domains in proteins MxcE,
 MxcF, and MxcG are capable of assembling myxochelin from ATP, NAD(P)H,
 lysine, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in vitro. This
 fact demonstrates that the condensation domain of MxcG performs two
 condensation reactions, creating the aryl-capped α-amide and the
 aryl-capped γ-amide of the molecule. A previously unknown type of
 reductive release is performed by the reduction domain of MxcG, which
 alternatively uses NADPH and NADH to set free the peptidyl-carrier
 protein-bound thioester as an aldehyde and further reduces it to the
 alcohol structure that can be found in myxochelin A. This type of
 reductive release seems to be a general mechanism in polyketide and
 nonribosomal peptide biosynthesis, because several systems with
 C-terminal similarity to the reductase domain of MxcG can be found in
 the databases. Alternatively, the aldehyde can be transaminated, giving
 rise to a terminal amine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In view of the observation that corticotropin-releasing factor
 (CRF) affects several brain functions through at least two subtypes of
 G protein-dependent receptors and a binding protein (CRFBP), we have
 developed synthetic strategies to provide enhanced binding specificity.
 Human/rat CRF (h/rCRF) and the CRF-like peptide sauvagine (Svg),
 differing in their affinities to CRFBP by two orders of magnitude, were
 used to identify the residues determining binding to CRFBP. By amino
 acid exchanges, it was found that Ala22 of h/rCRF was
 responsible for this peptide's high affinity to CRFBP, whereas
 Glu21 located in the equivalent position of Svg prevented
 high affinity binding to CRFBP. Accordingly,
 [Glu22]h/rCRF was not bound with high affinity to CRFBP
 in contrast to [Ala21]Svg, which exhibited such high
 affinity. Furthermore, the affinity of both peptides to either CRF
 receptor (CRFR) subtype was not reduced by these replacements, and
 their subtype preference was not changed. Thus, exchange of Ala and Glu
 and vice versa in positions 22 and 21 of h/rCRF and Svg,
 respectively, serves as a switch discriminating between CRFBP and CRFR.
 On the basis of this switch function, development of new specific CRF
 agonists and antagonists is expected to be facilitated. One application
 was the modification of the CRF antagonist astressin (Ast), whose
 employment in animal experiments is limited by its low solubility in
 cerebrospinal fluid. Introduction of Glu residues into Ast generated
 with [Glu11,16]Ast an acidic astressin, which efficiently
 antagonized in vivo the CRFR1-dependent reduction of
 locomotion induced by ovine CRF without detectable binding to CRFBP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the calcium-activated photoprotein aequorin, light is produced
 by the oxidation of coelenterazine, the luciferin used by at least
 seven marine phyla. However, despite extensive research on
 photoproteins, there has been no evidence to indicate the origin of
 coelenterazine within the phylum Cnidaria. Here we report that the
 hydromedusa Aequorea victoria is unable to produce its
 own coelenterazine and is dependent on a dietary supply of this
 luciferin for bioluminescence. Although they contain functional
 apophotoproteins, medusae reared on a luciferin-free diet are unable to
 produce light unless provided with coelenterazine from an external
 source. This evidence regarding the origins of luciferin in Cnidaria
 has implications for the evolution of bioluminescence and for the
 extensive use of coelenterazine among marine organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although genome analyses have suggested parallels between archaeal
 and eukaryotic replication systems, little is known about the DNA
 replication mechanism in Archaea. By two-dimensional gel
 electrophoreses we positioned a replication origin
 (oriC) within 1 kb in the chromosomal DNA of
 Pyrococcus abyssi, an anaerobic hyperthermophile, and
 demonstrated that the oriC is physically linked to the
 cdc6 gene. Our chromatin immunoprecipitation assays
 indicated that P. abyssi Cdc6 and minichromosome
 maintenance (MCM) proteins bind preferentially to the
 oriC region in the exponentially growing cells. Whereas
 the oriC association of MCM was specifically inhibited
 by stopping DNA replication with puromycin treatment, Cdc6 protein
 stayed bound to the replication origin after de novo
 protein synthesis was inhibited. Our data suggest that archaeal and
 eukaryotic Cdc6 and MCM proteins function similarly in replication
 initiation and imply that an oriC association of MCM
 could be regulated by an unknown mechanism in Archaea.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have shown previously that at physiologically relevant oxygen
 tension (pO2 ≈ 10 mmHg), NO S-nitrosylates 1 of
 ≈50 free cysteines per ryanodine receptor 1 (RyR1) subunit and
 transduces a calcium-sensitizing effect on the channel by means of
 calmodulin (CaM). It has been suggested that cysteine-3635
 is part of a CaM-binding domain, and its reactivity is attenuated by
 CaM [Porter Moore, C., Zhang, J. Z., Hamilton, S. L. (1999)
 J. Biol. Chem. 274, 36831–36834]. Therefore, we
 tested the hypothesis that the effect of NO was mediated by C3635. The
 full-length RyR1 single-site C3635A mutant was generated and expressed
 in HEK293 cells. The mutation resulted in the loss of CaM-dependent NO
 modulation of channel activity and reduced S-nitrosylation by NO to
 background levels but did not affect NO-independent channel modulation
 by CaM or the redox sensitivity of the channel to O2 and
 glutathione. Our results reveal that different cysteines within the
 channel have been adapted to serve in nitrosative and oxidative
 responses, and that S-nitrosylation of the cysteine-containing
 CaM-binding domain underlies the mechanism of CaM-dependent regulation
 of RyR1 by NO.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Peptide:N-glycanase (PNGase) cleaves
 oligosaccharide chains from glycopeptides and glycoproteins. Recently
 the deduced amino acid sequence of a cytoplasmic PNGase has been
 identified in various eukaryotes ranging from yeast to mammals,
 suggesting that deglycosylation may play a central role in some
 catabolic process. Several lines of evidence indicate that the
 cytoplasmic enzyme is involved in the quality control system for newly
 synthesized glycoproteins. Two-hybrid library screening by using mouse
 PNGase as the target yielded several PNGase-interacting proteins that
 previously had been implicated in proteasome-dependent protein
 degradation: mHR23B, ubiquitin, a regulatory subunit of the 19S
 proteasome, as well as a protein containing an ubiquitin
 regulatory motif (UBX) and an ubiquitin-associated motif (UBA). These
 findings by using the two-hybrid system were further confirmed either
 by in vitro binding assays or size fractionation assays.
 These results suggest that PNGase may be required for efficient
 proteasome-mediated degradation of misfolded glycoproteins in mammalian
 cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ability of bacteria to regulate gene expression in response to
 changes in cell density is termed quorum sensing. This behavior
 involves the synthesis and recognition of extracellular, hormone-like
 compounds known as autoinducers. Here we report the structure of an
 autoinducer synthase, LuxS from Bacillus subtilis, at
 1.6-Å resolution (Rfree = 0.204;
 Rwork = 0.174). LuxS is a homodimeric
 enzyme with a novel fold that incorporates two identical tetrahedral
 metal-binding sites. This metal center is composed of a
 Zn2+ atom coordinated by two histidines, a cysteine, and a
 solvent molecule, and is reminiscent of active sites found in several
 peptidases and amidases. Although the nature of the autoinducer
 synthesized by LuxS cannot be deduced from the crystal structure,
 features of the putative active site suggest that LuxS might catalyze
 hydrolytic, but not proteolytic, cleavage of a small substrate. Our
 analysis represents a test of structure-based functional assignment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Integrin β subunits contain four cysteine-rich repeats in a long
 extracellular stalk that connects the headpiece to the membrane. Most
 mAbs to integrin activation epitopes map to these repeats, and they are
 important in propagating conformational signals from the
 membrane/cytosol to the ligand-binding headpiece. Sequence analysis
 of a protein containing only 10 integrin-like, cysteine-rich repeats
 suggests that these repeats start one cysteine earlier than previously
 reported. By using the new repeat boundaries, statistically significant
 sequence homology to epidermal growth factor-like domains is found, and
 a disulfide bond connectivity of the eight cysteines is predicted that
 differs in three of four disulfides from a previous prediction of
 epidermal growth factor-like modules [Berg, R. W., Leung, E.,
 Gough, S., Morris, C., Yao, W.-P., Wang, S.-x., Ni, J. & Krissansen,
 G. W. (1999) Genomics 56, 169–178]. N-terminally
 truncated β2 integrin stalk fragments were well expressed and
 secreted from 293 T cells when they began at repeat boundaries but not
 when they began one cysteine earlier or later. Furthermore, peptides
 that correspond to module 3 or modules 2 + 3 were expressed in bacteria
 and refolded. The module 2 + 3 fragment was as reactive with three mAbs
 to activation epitopes as a β2 fragment expressed in eukaryotic
 cells, indicating a native fold. Only one residue intervenes between
 the last cysteine of one module and the first cysteine of the next.
 This arrangement is consistent with a tight intermodule connection, a
 prerequisite for signal propagation from the membrane to the ligand
 binding headpiece.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The three-dimensional structures of avian H5 and swine H9 influenza
 hemagglutinins (HAs) from viruses closely related to those that caused
 outbreaks of human disease in Hong Kong in 1997 and 1999 were
 determined bound to avian and human cell receptor analogs. Emerging
 influenza pandemics have been accompanied by the evolution of
 receptor-binding specificity from the preference of avian viruses for
 sialic acid receptors in α2,3 linkage to the preference of human
 viruses for α2,6 linkages. The four new structures show that HA
 binding sites specific for human receptors appear to be wider than
 those preferring avian receptors and how avian and human receptors are
 distinguished by atomic contacts at the glycosidic linkage.
 α2,3-Linked sialosides bind the avian HA in a trans conformation to
 form an α2,3 linkage-specific motif, made by the glycosidic oxygen
 and 4-OH of the penultimate galactose, that is complementary to the
 hydrogen-bonding capacity of Gln-226, an avian-specific residue.
 α2,6-Linked sialosides bind in a cis conformation, exposing the
 glycosidic oxygen to solution and nonpolar atoms of the receptor to
 Leu-226, a human-specific residue. The new structures are compared with
 previously reported crystal structures of HA/sialoside complexes of
 the H3 subtype that caused the 1968 Hong Kong Influenza virus pandemic
 and analyzed in relation to HA sequences of all 15 subtypes and to
 receptor affinity data to make clearer how receptor-binding sites of
 HAs from avian viruses evolve as the virus adapts to humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The HIV-1 gp41 envelope glycoprotein promotes fusion of the
 virus and cell membranes through the formation of a trimer-of-hairpins
 structure, in which the amino- and carboxyl-terminal regions of the
 gp41 ectodomain are brought together. Synthetic peptides derived from
 these two regions (called N and C peptides, respectively) inhibit HIV-1
 entry. In contrast to C peptides, which inhibit in the nanomolar range,
 N peptides are weak inhibitors with IC50 values in the
 micromolar range. To test the hypothesis that the weak inhibition of N
 peptides results from their tendency to aggregate, we have constructed
 chimeric variants of the N-peptide region of gp41 in which soluble
 trimeric coiled coils are fused to portions of the gp41 N peptide.
 These molecules, which present the N peptide in a trimeric coiled-coil
 conformation, are remarkably more potent inhibitors than the N peptides
 themselves and likely target the carboxyl-terminal region of the gp41
 ectodomain. The best inhibitors described here inhibit HIV-1 entry at
 nanomolar concentrations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Splicing of short introns by the nuclear pre-mRNA splicing
 machinery is thought to proceed via an “intron definition”
 mechanism, in which the 5′ and 3′ splice sites (5′ss, 3′ss,
 respectively) are initially recognized and paired across the intron.
 Here, we describe a computational analysis of sequence features
 involved in recognition of short introns by using available transcript
 data from five eukaryotes with complete or nearly complete genomic
 sequences. The information content of five different transcript
 features was measured by using methods from information theory, and
 Monte Carlo simulations were used to determine the amount of
 information required for accurate recognition of short introns in each
 organism. We conclude: (i) that short introns in
 Drosophila melanogaster and
 Caenorhabditis elegans contain
 essentially all of the information for their recognition by the
 splicing machinery, and computer programs that simulate splicing
 specificity can predict the exact boundaries of ≈95% of short
 introns in both organisms; (ii) that in yeast, the 5′ss,
 branch signal, and 3′ss can accurately identify intron locations but do
 not precisely determine the location of 3′ cleavage in every intron;
 and (iii) that the 5′ss, branch signal, and 3′ss are not
 sufficient to accurately identify short introns in plant and human
 transcripts, but that specific subsets of candidate intronic enhancer
 motifs can be identified in both human and Arabidopsis
 that contribute dramatically to the accuracy of splicing simulators.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The late assembly (L) domain of retrovirus Gag, required in the
 final steps of budding for efficient exit from the host cell, is
 thought to mediate its function through interaction with unknown
 cellular factors. Here, we report the identification of the Nedd4-like
 family of E3 ubiquitin protein ligases as proteins that specifically
 interact with the Rous sarcoma virus (RSV) L domain in
 vitro and in vivo. We screened a chicken embryo
 cDNA expression library by using a peptide derived from the RSV p2b
 sequence, isolating two unique partial cDNA clones. Neither clone
 interacted with a peptide containing mutations known to disrupt
 in vivo RSV L domain function or with human
 immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and equine infectious anemia
 virus (EIAV) L domain-derived peptides. The WW domain region of one of
 the clones, late domain-interacting protein 1 (LDI-1), but not the C2
 domain, bound RSV Gag and inhibited RSV Gag budding from human 293
 cells in a dominant-negative manner, functionally implicating LDI-1 in
 RSV particle budding from cells. RSV Gag can be coimmune precipitated
 from cell extracts with an antisera directed at an exogenously
 expressed hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged LDI-1 or endogenous
 Nedd4 proteins. These findings mechanistically link the cellular
 ubiquitination pathway to retrovirus budding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previously, we demonstrated that a protein from
 Xenopus egg jelly exhibits sperm chemoattractant
 activity when assayed by either video microscopy or by sperm passage
 across a porous filter. Here we describe the isolation and purification
 of allurin, the protein responsible for this activity. Freshly
 oviposited jellied eggs were soaked in buffer, and the conditioned
 medium was loaded onto an anion exchange column and eluted with an NaCl
 gradient. The active fraction was purified further by RP-HPLC, the
 chemoattractant protein appearing as a single sharp peak. The amino
 acid sequence of the protein, determined by direct sequencing and
 cloning of cDNAs coding for the protein, consisted of 184 amino acids
 having a molecular mass of 21,073 Da. The protein shares homology with
 the mammalian cysteine-rich secretory protein (CRISP) family that
 includes testes-specific spermatocyte protein 1, a cell adhesion
 protein which links spermatocytes to Seritoli cells, and acidic
 epididymal glycoproteins that bind to sperm and have been implicated in
 sperm–egg fusion. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that allurin evolved
 from the ancestral protein that gave rise to the mammalian CRISP
 family. Addition of allurin to this family portends that the CRISP
 family represents a group of “sperm escort” proteins, which bind
 to sperm at various steps in their life history, facilitating passage
 from one functional stage to the next. Allurin stands out in this
 regard, representing both the first vertebrate sperm chemoattractant to
 be purified and sequenced and the first member of the CRISP family to
 be found in the female reproductive tract.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cdc6p and the origin recognition complex (ORC) are essential
 for assembly of a pre-replicative complex (preRC) at origins of
 replication, before the initiation of DNA synthesis. In the absence of
 Cdc6p, cells fail to initiate DNA replication and undergo a
 “reductional” mitosis, in which the unreplicated chromosomes are
 randomly segregated to the spindle poles. We show here that the cells
 harboring a mutation in the essential Cdc6p Walker A-box arrest in late
 mitosis, probably at anaphase. This cell cycle block requires either
 the three Cdc28p phosphorylation sites within the N terminus of Cdc6p
 or a short region (aa 8–17) that contains a Cy (Cyclin) interaction
 sequence. These same two Cdc6p mutants that allow a reductional mitosis
 are defective in binding Cdc28p kinase. In addition to Cdc6p, ORC also
 binds to cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). Interestingly, Sic1p, a CDK
 inhibitor protein, blocked the S phase-specific Cdc28p-Clb5p kinase
 from interacting with ORC, but did not prevent the
 G1-specific Cdc28p-Cln2p kinase–ORC interaction. We
 suggest that ORC, Cdc6p, and Sic1p bind to different CDKs in a cell
 cycle-dependent manner to temporally regulate events that
 (i) allow preRC formation after mitosis,
 (ii) prevent mitosis before DNA replication can occur,
 and (iii) promote initiation of DNA replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mitochondrial protein kinases (mPKs) are molecular switches that
 down-regulate the oxidation of branched-chain α-ketoacids and
 pyruvate. Elevated levels of these metabolites are implicated in
 disease states such as insulin-resistant Type II diabetes,
 branched-chain ketoaciduria, and primary lactic acidosis. We report a
 three-dimensional structure of a member of the mPK family, rat
 branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase kinase (BCK). BCK features a
 characteristic nucleotide-binding domain and a four-helix bundle
 domain. These two domains are reminiscent of modules found in protein
 histidine kinases (PHKs), which are involved in two-component signal
 transduction systems. Unlike PHKs, BCK dimerizes through direct
 interaction of two opposing nucleotide-binding domains. Nucleotide
 binding to BCK is uniquely mediated by both potassium and magnesium.
 Binding of ATP induces disorder–order transitions in a loop region
 at the nucleotide-binding site. These structural changes lead to the
 formation of a quadruple aromatic stack in the interface between the
 nucleotide-binding domain and the four-helix bundle domain, where they
 induce a movement of the top portion of two helices. Phosphotransfer
 induces further ordering of the loop region, effectively trapping the
 reaction product ADP, which explains product inhibition in mPKs. The
 BCK structure is a prototype for all mPKs and will provide a framework
 for structure-assisted inhibitor design for this family of kinases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Possible target proteins of chloroplast thioredoxin (Trx) have been
 investigated in the stroma lysate of spinach chloroplasts. For that
 purpose, we immobilized a mutant of m-type Trx in which
 an internal cysteine at the active site was substituted with serine, on
 cyanogen bromide-activated resin. By using this resin, the target
 proteins in chloroplast were efficiently acquired when they formed the
 mixed-disulfide intermediates with the immobilized Trxs. We could
 acquire Rubisco activase (45 kDa) and 2-Cys-type peroxiredoxin (Prx),
 which were recently identified as targets of chloroplast Trxs.
 Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and sedoheputulose
 1,7-bisphosphatase, well-known thiol enzymes in the
 Calvin cycle, also were recognized among the collected proteins,
 suggesting the method is applicable for our purpose. Furthermore, four
 proteins were identified from a homology search of the
 NH2-terminal sequence of the acquired proteins: glutamine
 synthetase, a protein homologous to chloroplast cyclophilin, a homolog
 of Prx-Q, and the Rubisco small subunit. The Trx susceptibilities of
 the recombinant cyclophilin and Prx-Q of Arabidopsis
 thaliana were then examined. The method developed in the
 present study is thus applicable to investigate the various redox
 networks via Trxs and the related enzymes in the cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this work, we demonstrate that the phosphatidylinositol
 3,4,5-trisphosphate-binding protein JFC1 is an ATP-binding protein with
 magnesium-dependent ATPase activity. We show that JFC1 specifically
 binds to the ATP analog 8-azido-[α-32P]ATP. The
 affinity of JFC1 for [α-32P]ATP was 10× greater than
 its affinity for [α-32P]ADP; the protein did not appear
 to bind to [α-32P]GTP. JFC1 hydrolyzed
 [α-32P]ATP in a Mg2+-dependent manner.
 JFC1, which also hydrolyzed dATP, has a relatively high affinity for
 ATP, with a KM value of 58 μM, and a
 kcat value of 2.27 per min. The predicted
 amino acid sequence of JFC1 denotes a putative nucleotide-binding site
 similar to those in the GHKL ATPase/kinase superfamily. However, a
 truncation of JFC1 that contains boxes G2 and G3 but not boxes N and G1
 of the Bergerat-binding site showed residual ATPase activity. Secondly,
 the antitumor ATP-mimetic agent geldanamycin, which inhibits the ATPase
 activity of Hsp-90, did not affect JFC1 ATPase. Therefore, the
 characteristics of the ATP-binding site of JFC1 are unique.
 Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate, a high-affinity ligand of
 JFC1 did not affect its ATPase kinetics parameters, suggesting that the
 phosphoinositide have a different role in JFC1 function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Checkpoint Rad proteins function early in the DNA damage
 checkpoint signaling cascade to arrest cell cycle progression in
 response to DNA damage. This checkpoint ensures the transmission of an
 intact genetic complement to daughter cells. To learn about the damage
 sensor function of the human checkpoint Rad proteins, we purified a
 heteropentameric complex composed of
 hRad17-RFCp36-RFCp37-RFCp38-RFCp40 (hRad17-RFC) and a heterotrimeric
 complex composed of hRad9-hHus1-hRad1 (checkpoint 9-1-1 complex).
 hRad17-RFC binds to DNA, with a preference for primed DNA and possesses
 weak ATPase activity that is stimulated by primed DNA and
 single-stranded DNA. hRad17-RFC forms a complex with the 9-1-1
 heterotrimer reminiscent of the replication factor C/proliferating
 cell nuclear antigen clamp loader/sliding clamp complex of the
 replication machinery. These findings constitute biochemical support
 for models regarding the roles of checkpoint Rads as damage sensors in
 the DNA damage checkpoint response of human cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Diverse biochemical and biophysical experiments indicate that all
 proteins, regardless of size or origin, undergo a dynamic transition
 near 200 K. The cause of this shift in dynamic behavior, termed a
 “glass transition,” and its relation to protein function are
 important open questions. One explanation postulated for the transition
 is solidification of correlated motions in proteins below the
 transition. We verified this conjecture by showing that crambin's
 radius of gyration (Rg) remains constant below ≈180 K. We show that
 both atom position and dynamics of protein and solvent are physically
 coupled, leading to a novel cooperative state. This glassy state is
 identified by negative slopes of the Debye-Waller (B) factor vs.
 temperature. It is composed of multisubstate side chains and solvent.
 Based on generalization of Adam-Gibbs' notion of a cooperatively
 rearranging region and decrease of the total entropy with temperature,
 we calculate the slope of the Debye-Waller factor. The results are in
 accord with experiment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed, experimentally implemented, and modeled
 in silico a methodology named SCRATCHY that enables the
 combinatorial engineering of target proteins, independent of sequence
 identity. The approach combines two methods for recombining genes:
 incremental truncation for the creation of hybrid enzymes and DNA
 shuffling. First, incremental truncation for the creation of hybrid
 enzymes is used to create a comprehensive set of fusions between
 fragments of genes in a DNA homology-independent fashion. This
 artificial family is then subjected to a DNA-shuffling step to augment
 the number of crossovers. SCRATCHY libraries were created from the
 glycinamide-ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GART) genes from
 Escherichia coli (purN) and human
 (hGART). The developed modeling framework
 eSCRATCHY provides insight into the effect of sequence
 identity and fragmentation length on crossover statistics and draws
 contrast with DNA shuffling. Sequence analysis of the naive shuffled
 library identified members with up to three crossovers, and modeling
 predictions are in good agreement with the experimental findings.
 Subsequent in vivo selection in an auxotrophic E.
 coli host yielded functional hybrid enzymes containing multiple
 crossovers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The observation of subpicosecond fluctuations in the conformation
 of a small peptide in water is demonstrated. We use an experimental
 method that is specifically sensitive to conformational dynamics taking
 place on an ultrafast time scale. Complementary molecular-dynamics
 simulations confirm that the conformational fluctuations exhibit a
 subpicosecond component, the time scale and amplitude of which agree
 well with those derived from the experiment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding how metal binding regulates the activity of the
 diphtheria toxin repressor protein (DtxR) requires information about
 the structure in solution. We have prepared a DtxR mutant construct
 with three additional N-terminal residues, Gly-Ser-His-DtxR(Cys-102 →
 Asp), that retains metal-binding capabilities, but remains monomeric in
 solution and does not bind DNA under conditions that effect
 dimerization and DNA binding in the functional DtxR(Cys-102 → Asp)
 construct. Although the interaction properties of this inactive mutant
 in solution are very different from that of active repressors,
 crystallization imposes the same dimeric structure as observed in all
 crystal forms of the active repressor with and without bound metal. Our
 solution NMR analyses of active and inactive metal-free diphtheria
 toxin repressors demonstrate that whereas the C-terminal one-third of
 the protein is well ordered, the N-terminal two-thirds exhibits
 conformational flexibility and exists as an ensemble of structural
 substates with undefined tertiary structure. Fluorescence binding
 assays with 1-anilino naphthalene-8-sulfonic acid (ANS) confirm that
 the highly α-helical N-terminal two-thirds of the apoprotein is
 molten globule-like in solution. Binding of divalent metal cations
 induces a substantial conformational reorganization to a more ordered
 state, as evidenced by changes in the NMR spectra and ANS binding. The
 evident disorder to order transition upon binding of metal in solution
 is in contrast to the minor conformational changes seen comparing apo-
 and holo-DtxR crystal structures. Disordered to ordered folding appears
 to be a general mechanism for regulating specific recognition in
 protein action and this mechanism provides a plausible explanation for
 how metal binding controls the DtxR repressor activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The power of two-dimensional (2D) IR spectroscopy as a structural
 method with unprecedented time resolution is greatly improved by the
 introduction of IR polarization conditions that completely eliminate
 diagonal peaks from the spectra and leave only the crosspeaks needed
 for structure determination. This approach represents a key step
 forward in the applications of 2D IR to proteins, peptides, and other
 complex molecules where crosspeaks are often obscured by diagonal
 peaks. The technique is verified on the model compound
 1,3-cyclohexanedione and subsequently used to clarify the distribution
 of structures that the acetylproline-NH2 dipeptide adopts
 in chloroform. In both cases, crosspeaks are revealed that were not
 observed before, which, in the case of the dipeptide, has led to
 additional information about the structure of the amino group end of
 the peptide.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Psoralens linked to triplex-forming oligonucleotides (psoTFOs) have
 been used in conjunction with laser-induced two-photon excitation (TPE)
 to damage a specific DNA target sequence. To demonstrate that TPE can
 initiate photochemistry resulting in psoralen–DNA photoadducts, target
 DNA sequences were incubated with psoTFOs to form triple-helical
 complexes and then irradiated in liquid solution with pulsed 765-nm
 laser light, which is half the quantum energy required for conventional
 one-photon excitation, as used in psoralen + UV A radiation
 (320–400 nm) therapy. Target DNA acquired strand-specific psoralen
 monoadducts in a light dose-dependent fashion. To localize DNA damage
 in a model tissue-like medium, a DNA–psoTFO mixture was prepared in a
 polyacrylamide gel and then irradiated with a converging laser beam
 targeting the rear of the gel. The highest number of photoadducts
 formed at the rear while relatively sparing DNA at the front of the
 gel, demonstrating spatial localization of sequence-specific DNA damage
 by TPE. To assess whether TPE treatment could be extended to cells
 without significant toxicity, cultured monolayers of normal human
 dermal fibroblasts were incubated with tritium-labeled psoralen without
 TFO to maximize detectable damage and irradiated by TPE. DNA from
 irradiated cells treated with psoralen exhibited a 4- to 7-fold
 increase in tritium activity relative to untreated controls. Functional
 survival assays indicated that the psoralen–TPE treatment was not
 toxic to cells. These results demonstrate that DNA damage can be
 simultaneously manipulated at the nucleotide level and in three
 dimensions. This approach for targeting photochemical DNA damage may
 have photochemotherapeutic applications in skin and other optically
 accessible tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Voltage-gated channels are normally opened by depolarization and
 closed by repolarization of the membrane. Despite sharing significant
 sequence homology with voltage-gated K+ channels, the
 gating of hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic-nucleotide-gated (HCN)
 pacemaker channels has the opposite dependence on membrane potential:
 hyperpolarization opens, whereas depolarization closes, these channels.
 The mechanism and structural basis of the process that couples voltage
 sensor movement to HCN channel opening and closing is not understood.
 On the basis of our previous studies of a mutant HERG (human
 ether-a-go-go-related gene) channel, we hypothesized that the
 intracellular linker that connects the fourth and fifth transmembrane
 domains (S4–S5 linker) of HCN channels might be important for channel
 gating. Here, we used alanine-scanning mutagenesis of the HCN2 S4–S5
 linker to identify three residues, E324, Y331, and R339, that when
 mutated disrupted normal channel closing. Mutation of a basic residue
 in the S4 domain (R318Q) prevented channel opening, presumably by
 disrupting S4 movement. However, channels with R318Q and Y331S
 mutations were constitutively open, suggesting that these channels can
 open without a functioning S4 domain. We conclude that the S4–S5
 linker mediates coupling between voltage sensing and HCN channel
 activation. Our findings also suggest that opening of HCN and related
 channels corresponds to activation of a gate located near the inner
 pore, rather than recovery of channels from a C-type inactivated state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cancer cells and aneuploid cell lines can acquire resistance
 against multiple unrelated chemotherapeutic drugs that are over
 3,000-fold those of normal levels and display spontaneous resistances
 up to 20-fold of normal levels. Two different mechanisms were proposed
 for this phenotype: (i) classical mutation of drug
 metabolizing genes or (ii) chromosome reassortments,
 catalyzed by cancer- and cell line-specific aneuploidy, which generate,
 via new gene dosage combinations, a plethora of cancer phenotypes,
 including drug resistance. To distinguish between these mechanisms, we
 have asked whether three mouse cell lines can become drug resistant,
 from which two or three genes have been deleted, and on which multidrug
 resistance is thought to depend: Mdr1a,
 Mdr1b, and Mrp1. Because all three lines
 could acquire multidrug resistance and were aneuploid, whereas diploid
 mouse cells could not, we conclude that aneuploid cells become drug
 resistant via specific chromosome assortments, independent of putative
 resistance genes. We have asked further whether aneuploid
 drug-resistant Chinese hamster cells revert spontaneously to drug
 sensitivity in the absence of cytotoxic drugs at the high rates that
 are typical of chromosome reassortments catalyzed by aneuploidy or at
 the very low or zero rates (i.e., deletion) of gene mutation. We found
 that four drug-resistant hamster cell lines reverted to drug
 sensitivity at rates of about 2–3% per generation, whereas two
 closely related lines remained resistant under our conditions. Thus,
 the karyotypic instability generated by aneuploidy emerges as the
 common source of the various levels of drug resistance of cancer cells:
 minor spontaneous resistances reflect accidental chromosome
 assortments, the high selected resistances reflect complex specific
 assortments, and multidrug resistance reflects new combinations of
 unselected genes located on the same chromosomes as selected genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genome integrity is monitored by a checkpoint that delays mitosis
 in response to DNA damage. This checkpoint is enforced by Chk1, a
 protein kinase that inhibits the mitotic inducer Cdc25. In fission
 yeast, Chk1 is regulated by a group of proteins that includes Rad3, a
 protein kinase related to human ATM and ATR. These kinases
 phosphorylate serine or threonine followed by glutamine (SQ/TQ).
 Fission yeast and human Chk1 proteins share two conserved SQ motifs at
 serine-345 and serine-367. Serine-345 of human Chk1 is phosphorylated
 in response to DNA damage. Here we report that Rad3 and ATM
 phosphorylate serine-345 of fission yeast Chk1. Mutation of serine-345
 (chk1-S345A) abrogates Rad3-dependent phosphorylation of
 Chk1 in vivo. The chk1-S345A cells are
 sensitive to DNA damage and are checkpoint defective. In contrast,
 mutations of serine-367 and other SQ/TQ sites do not substantially
 impair the checkpoint or cause damage sensitivity. These findings
 attest to the importance of serine-345 phosphorylation for Chk1
 function and strengthen evidence that transduction of the DNA damage
 checkpoint signal requires direct phosphorylation of Chk1 by Rad3.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is a non-receptor protein tyrosine
 kinase localized at focal adhesions and is believed to mediate
 adhesion-stimulated effects. Although ablation of FAK impairs cell
 movement, it is not clear whether FAK might be involved in the guidance
 of cell migration, a role consistent with its putative regulatory
 function. We have transfected FAK-null fibroblasts with FAK gene under
 the control of the tetracycline repression system. Cells were cultured
 on flexible polyacrylamide substrates for the detection of traction
 forces and the application of mechanical stimulation. Compared with
 control cells expressing wild-type FAK, FAK-null cells showed a
 decrease in migration speed and directional persistence. In addition,
 whereas FAK-expressing cells responded to exerted forces by reorienting
 their movements and forming prominent focal adhesions, FAK-null cells
 failed to show such responses. Furthermore, FAK-null cells showed
 impaired responses to decreases in substrate flexibility, which causes
 control cells to generate weaker traction forces and migrate away from
 soft substrates. Cells expressing Y397F FAK, which cannot be
 phosphorylated at a key tyrosine site, showed similar defects in
 migration pattern and force-induced reorientation as did FAK-null
 cells. However, other aspects of F397-FAK cells, including the
 responses to substrate flexibility and the amplification of focal
 adhesions upon mechanical stimulation, were similar to that of control
 cells. Our results suggest that FAK plays an important role in the
 response of migrating cells to mechanical input. In addition,
 phosphorylation at Tyr-397 is required for some, but not all, of the
 functions of FAK in cell migration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Digital in-line holography with numerical reconstruction has
 been developed into a new tool, specifically for biological
 applications, that routinely achieves both lateral and depth
 resolution, at least at the micron level, in three-dimensional imaging.
 The experimental and numerical procedures have been incorporated into a
 program package with a very fast reconstruction algorithm that is now
 capable of real-time reconstruction. This capability is demonstrated
 for diverse objects, such as suspension of microspheres and biological
 samples (diatom, the head of Drosophila melanogaster), and
 the advantages are discussed by comparing holographic reconstructions
 with images taken by using conventional compound light microscopy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Neuronal Wiskott–Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP) has emerged
 as a central regulator of the actin cytoskeleton with abilities to
 integrate multiple upstream signal inputs and transmit them to the
 Arp2/3 complex. Here, we demonstrate that native N-WASP is present in
 a tight complex with a proline-rich protein, CR16, which shares ≈25%
 identity with WASP interacting protein. CR16 is encoded by a gene
 previously cloned as a glucocorticoid-regulated mRNA from a rat
 hippocampal cDNA library. Although N-WASP is expressed ubiquitously,
 full-length CR16 protein is found predominately in the brain. CR16 and
 N-WASP colocalize in primary hippocampal neurons and at the tips of
 their growth cone filopodia. In vitro, CR16 directly
 binds both monomeric and filamentous actin but does not affect the
 kinetics of actin polymerization mediated by N-WASP and the Arp2/3
 complex. Sequence homologues of CR16 are found not only in other
 vertebrates but also in the invertebrate
 Caenorhabditis elegans and in yeast.
 Thus, CR16 and WASP interacting protein belong to a family of
 N-WASP-binding proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
SUMO-1 is a small ubiquitin-related modifier protein that is
 covalently linked to many cellular and viral protein targets.
 Modification by SUMO-1 is proposed to play a role in protein targeting
 and/or stability. We show here that adenovirus type 5 early region 1B
 55-kDa (E1B-55kDa) oncoprotein can be covalently modified by SUMO-1
 in vivo through a major attachment site comprising a
 single lysine residue at amino acid position 104. The sequence
 surrounding this lysine matches the proposed ΨKxE consensus motif
 required for SUMO-1 conjugation. A single mutation (K104R) that
 abolishes SUMOylation of E1B-55kDa dramatically reduces the ability of
 the adenovirus type 5 protein to transform primary baby rat kidney
 cells in cooperation with E1A and to inhibit p53-mediated
 transactivation. Overexpression of SUMO-1 in adenovirus type 5
 E1A/E1B-55kDa-transformed baby rat kidney cells causes the
 relocalization of E1B-55kDa from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, where it
 accumulates with SUMO-1 in dot- or track-like structures.
 Significantly, when SUMO-1 is ectopically expressed in transformed rat
 cells no effect on the cytoplasmic localization of the E1B-K104R mutant
 protein is observed. Our results demonstrate that SUMO-1 modification
 is required for transformation by adenovirus type 5 E1B-55kDa and
 provide further evidence for the idea that this posttranslational
 modification plays a role in protein targeting to specific subcellular
 sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
BH3-only proteins function at a proximal point in a conserved
 cell death pathway by binding, through their BH3 domains, to other
 Bcl-2 family members and triggering mitochondrial events associated
 with apoptosis. Here, we describe a strongly
 pro-apoptotic BH3-only protein, designated Bbc3, whose
 expression increases in response to diverse apoptotic stimuli.
 bbc3 mRNA levels were induced by exposure to
 DNA-damaging agents and by wild-type p53, which mediates DNA
 damage-induced apoptosis. p53 transactivated
 bbc3 through consensus p53 binding sites within the
 bbc3 promoter region, indicating that
 bbc3 is a direct target of p53. Additionally,
 bbc3 mRNA was induced by p53-independent
 apoptotic stimuli, including dexamethasone treatment of
 thymocytes, and serum deprivation of tumor cells. Insulin-like growth
 factor-1 and epidermal growth factor, growth factors with broad
 anti-apoptotic activity, were each sufficient to suppress Bbc3
 expression in serum-starved tumor cells. These results suggest that the
 transcriptional regulation of bbc3 contributes to the
 transduction of diverse cell death and survival signals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The leading edge of motile cells is propelled by polymerization of
 actin filaments according to a dendritic nucleation/array
 treadmilling mechanism. However, little attention has been given to the
 origin and maintenance of the dendritic array. Here we develop and test
 a population–kinetics model that explains the organization of actin
 filaments in terms of the reproduction of dendritic units. The life
 cycle of an actin filament consists of dendritic nucleation on another
 filament (birth), elongation by addition of actin subunits and,
 finally, termination of filament growth by capping protein (death). The
 regularity of branch angle between daughter and mother filaments endows
 filaments with heredity of their orientation. Fluctuations of branch
 angle that become fixed in the actin network create errors of
 orientation (mutations) that may be inherited. In our model, birth and
 death rates depend on filament orientation, which then becomes a
 selectable trait. Differential reproduction and elimination of
 filaments, or natural selection, leads to the evolution of a filament
 pattern with a characteristic distribution of filament orientations. We
 develop a procedure based on the Radon transform for quantitatively
 analyzing actin networks in situ and show that the
 experimental results are in agreement with the distribution of filament
 orientations predicted by our model. We conclude that the propulsive
 actin network can be understood as a self-organizing supramolecular
 ensemble shaped by the evolution of dendritic lineages through natural
 selection of their orientation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Glucose is absorbed through the intestine by a transepithelial
 transport system initiated at the apical membrane by the cotransporter
 SGLT-1; intracellular glucose is then assumed to diffuse across the
 basolateral membrane through GLUT2. Here, we evaluated the impact of
 GLUT2 gene inactivation on this transepithelial
 transport process. We report that the kinetics of transepithelial
 glucose transport, as assessed in oral glucose tolerance tests, was
 identical in the presence or absence of GLUT2; that the transport was
 transcellular because it could be inhibited by the SGLT-1 inhibitor
 phlorizin, and that it could not be explained by overexpression of
 another known glucose transporter. By using an isolated intestine
 perfusion system, we demonstrated that the rate of transepithelial
 transport was similar in control and GLUT2−/− intestine
 and that it was increased to the same extent by cAMP in both
 situations. However, in the absence, but not in the presence, of GLUT2,
 the transport was inhibited dose-dependently by the glucose-6-phosphate
 translocase inhibitor S4048. Furthermore, whereas transport of
 [14C]glucose proceeded with the same kinetics in control
 and GLUT2−/− intestine,
 [14C]3-O-methylglucose was transported in
 intestine of control but not of mutant mice. Together our data
 demonstrate the existence of a transepithelial glucose transport system
 in GLUT2−/− intestine that requires glucose
 phosphorylation and transfer of glucose-6-phosphate into the
 endoplasmic reticulum. Glucose may then be released out of the cells by
 a membrane traffic-based pathway similar to the one we previously
 described in GLUT2-null hepatocytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have reported that normal human salivary gland-derived
 epithelial cells exclusively express keratinocyte growth factor
 receptor (KGFR). In the process of malignant transformation of human
 salivary gland tumors, KGFR gene expression disappeared concomitantly
 with the de novo expression of the fibroblast growth
 factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) and FGFR4 genes. In the present study, we
 introduced wild-type KGFR cDNA or chimeric KGFR/FGFR1 cDNA, which
 encoded the extracellular domain of KGFR and the intracellular domain
 of FGFR1, into the HSY human salivary adenocarcinoma cell line. The
 KGFR tyrosine kinase suppressed the activity of FGF receptor substrate
 2 (FRS2) and inhibited the growth of HSY by inducing differentiation
 and apoptosis in vitro and in
 vivo. Our results provided significant insight into the
 mechanism of KGFR tumor suppression and suggest that KGFR gene therapy
 might be a viable method of inhibiting human salivary adenocarcinoma
 growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Heritable mutations in the germ line lead to genetically
 heterogeneous, or mosaic, gonads. Many of the genes used in germ-line
 development also play roles in somatic development [Saffman, E.
 E. & Lasko, P. (1999) Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 55,
 1141–1163]. Mutations in these genes may have cellular phenotypes
 throughout germ-line development leading to their differential
 elimination or survival, as has been observed in somatic cells
 [Morata, G. & Ripoll, P. (1975) Dev. Biol. 42,
 211–221]. We investigate whether mutations in heterozygosis are
 subject to pregametic selection in the germ line. We initiated clones
 of wild-type homozygous cells at different stages of development in
 gonads heterozygous for eight different recessive chromosome
 deficiencies. Here we show that cell selection takes place in mosaic
 germ-line populations. This phenomenon represents a level of selection
 that precedes and conditions subsequent zygotic selection by affecting
 the genes available in the gametic population.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The dorsal–ventral polarity of the somite is controlled by
 antagonistic signals from the dorsal neural tube/surface ectoderm,
 mediated by WNTs, and from the ventral notochord, mediated by sonic
 hedgehog (SHH). Each factor can act over a distance greater than a
 somite diameter in vitro, suggesting they must limit
 each other's actions within their own patterning domains in
 vivo. We show here that the growth-arrest specific gene
 1 (Gas1), which is expressed in the dorsal
 somite, is induced by WNTs and encodes a protein that can bind to SHH.
 Furthermore, ectopic expression of Gas1 in presomitic
 cells attenuates the response of these cells to SHH in
 vitro. Taken together, these data suggest that GAS1 functions
 to reduce the availability of active SHH within the dorsal somite.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Secreted noggin protein regulates bone morphogenetic protein
 activity during development. In mice, a complete loss of noggin protein
 leads to multiple malformations including joint fusion, whereas mice
 heterozygous for Nog loss-of-function mutations are
 normal. In humans, heterozygous NOG missense mutations
 have been found in patients with two autosomal dominant disorders of
 joint development, multiple synostosis syndrome (SYNS1) and a milder
 disorder proximal symphalangism (SYM1). This study investigated the
 effect of one SYNS1 and two SYM1 disease-causing missense mutations on
 the structure and function of noggin. The SYNS1 mutation abolished, and
 the SYM1 mutations reduced, the secretion of functional noggin dimers
 in transiently transfected COS-7 cells. Coexpression of mutant noggin
 with wild-type noggin, to resemble the heterozygous state, did not
 interfere with wild-type noggin secretion. These data indicate that the
 human disease-causing mutations are hypomorphic alleles that reduce
 secretion of functional dimeric noggin. Therefore, we conclude that
 noggin has both species-specific and joint-specific dosage-dependent
 roles during joint formation. Surprisingly, in contrast to the COS-7
 cell studies, the SYNS1 mutant was able to form dimers in
 Xenopus laevis oocytes. This finding
 indicates that there also exist species-specific differences in the
 ability to process mutant noggin polypeptides.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Development of the Drosophila abdomen requires
 repression of maternal hunchback (hb)
 mRNA translation in the posterior of the embryo. This regulation
 involves at least four components: nanos response
 elements within the hb 3′ untranslated region and the
 activities of Pumilio (PUM), Nanos (NOS), and Brain tumor. To study
 this regulation, we have developed an RNA injection assay that
 faithfully recapitulates the regulation of the endogenous
 hb message. Previous studies have suggested that NOS and
 PUM can regulate translation by directing poly(A) removal. We have
 found that RNAs that lack a poly(A) tail and cannot be polyadenylated
 and RNAs that contain translational activating sequences in place of
 the poly(A) tail are still repressed in the posterior. These data
 demonstrate that the poly(A) tail is not required for regulation and
 suggest that NOS and PUM can regulate hb translation by
 two mechanisms: removal of the poly(A) tail and a poly(A)-independent
 pathway that directly affects translation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although there is no shortage of potential explanations for the
 large-scale patterns of biological diversity, the hypothesis that
 energy-related factors are the primary determinants is perhaps most
 extensively supported, especially in cold-temperate regions. By using
 unusually high-resolution biodiversity and environmental data that have
 not previously been available, we demonstrate that habitat
 heterogeneity, as measured by remotely sensed land cover variation,
 explains Canadian butterfly richness better than any energy-related
 variable we measured across spatial scales. Although species-richness
 predictability declines with progressively smaller quadrat sizes, as
 expected, we demonstrate that most variability (>90%) in butterfly
 richness may be explained by habitat heterogeneity with secondary
 contributions from climatic energy. We also find that patterns of
 community similarity across Canada are strongly related to patterns of
 habitat composition but not to differences in energy-related factors.
 Energy should still be considered significant but its main role may be
 through its effects on within-habitat diversity and perhaps,
 indirectly, on the sorts of habitats that may be found in a region.
 Effects of sampling intensity and spatial autocorrelation do not alter
 our findings.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We provide evidence for conspecific acoustic communication in
 caterpillars. Larvae of the common hook-tip moth, Drepana
 arcuata (Drepanoidea), defend silk nest sites from conspecifics
 by using ritualized acoustic displays. Sounds are produced by drumming
 the mandibles and scraping the mandibles and specialized anal
 “oars” against the leaf surface. Staged interactions between a
 resident and intruder resulted in escalated acoustic “duels” that
 were typically resolved within minutes, but sometimes extended for
 several hours. Resident caterpillars generally won territorial
 disputes, regardless of whether they had built the nest, but relatively
 large intruders occasionally displaced residents from their nests. All
 evidence is consistent with acoustic signaling serving a territorial
 function. As with many vertebrates, ritualized signaling appears to
 allow contestants to resolve contests without physical harm.
 Comparative evidence indicates that larval acoustic signaling may be
 widespread throughout the Lepidoptera, meriting consideration as a
 principal mode of communication for this important group of insects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Biodiversity plays a vital role for ecosystem functioning in a
 changing environment. Yet theoretical approaches that incorporate
 diversity into classical ecosystem theory do not provide a general
 dynamic theory based on mechanistic principles. In this paper, we
 suggest that approaches developed for quantitative genetics can be
 extended to ecosystem functioning by modeling the means and variances
 of phenotypes within a group of species. We present a framework that
 suggests that phenotypic variance within functional groups is linearly
 related to their ability to respond to environmental changes. As a
 result, the long-term productivity for a group of species with high
 phenotypic variance may be higher than for the best single species,
 even though high phenotypic variance decreases productivity in the
 short term, because suboptimal species are present. In addition, we
 find that in the case of accelerating environmental change, species
 succession in a changing environment may become discontinuous. Our work
 suggests that this phenomenon is related to diversity as well as to the
 environmental disturbance regime, both of which are affected by
 anthropogenic activities. By introducing new techniques for modeling
 the aggregate behavior of groups of species, the present approach may
 provide a new avenue for ecosystem analysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The evolutionary relationships of gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates),
 which comprise chondrichthyans (cartilaginous fishes), lobe-finned
 fishes (coelacanths and lungfishes), tetrapods, and actinopterygians
 (ray-finned fishes), have been debated for almost a century.
 Phylogenetic analyses based on fossils, morphology, and molecular
 sequences have generated different models of relationships that remain
 unresolved. We identified 13 derived shared molecular markers
 (synapomorphies) that define clades in the vertebrate lineage and used
 them to resolve the phylogenetic relationships of extant jawed
 vertebrates. Our markers include the presence or absence of insertions
 and deletions in coding sequences, nuclear introns, and alternatively
 spliced transcripts. The synapomorphies identified by us are congruent
 with each other and give rise to a single phylogenetic tree. This tree
 confirms that chondrichthyans are basal to all living gnathostomes,
 that lungfishes (Dipnoi) are the closest living relatives of tetrapods,
 and that bichirs (Cladistia) are the living members of the most ancient
 family of ray-finned fishes. Our study also provides molecular evidence
 to support the monophyly of living tetrapods and teleosts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Numerous studies have shown genotype-by-environment (G×E)
 interactions for traits related to organismal fitness. However, the
 genetic architecture of the interaction is usually unknown because
 these studies used genotypes that differ from one another by many
 unknown mutations. These mutations were also present as standing
 variation in populations and hence had been subject to prior selection.
 Based on such studies, it is therefore impossible to say what fraction
 of new, random mutations contributes to G×E interactions. In this
 study, we measured the fitness in four environments of 26 genotypes of
 Escherichia coli, each containing a single random
 insertion mutation. Fitness was measured relative to their common
 progenitor, which had evolved on glucose at 37°C for the preceding
 10,000 generations. The four assay environments differed in limiting
 resource and temperature (glucose, 28°C; maltose, 28°C; glucose,
 37°C; and maltose, 37°C). A highly significant interaction between
 mutation and resource was found. In contrast, there was no interaction
 involving temperature. The resource interaction reflected much higher
 among mutation variation for fitness in maltose than in glucose. At
 least 11 mutations (42%) contributed to this G×E interaction through
 their differential fitness effects across resources. Beneficial
 mutations are generally thought to be rare but, surprisingly, at least
 three mutations (12%) significantly improved fitness in maltose, a
 resource novel to the progenitor. More generally, our findings
 demonstrate that G×E interactions can be quite common, even for
 genotypes that differ by only one mutation and in environments
 differing by only a single factor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nestling birds solicit food from adults by using begging
 displays that appear paradoxically costly and wasteful. Theoretical
 work suggests that the evolution of such exuberant offspring behavior
 reflects parent–offspring conflict over the supply of parental
 investment. Originally, extravagant begging was seen as a means of
 psychological trickery by which offspring could wheedle additional
 resources from resistant parents. Subsequently, costly begging came to
 be viewed as the hallmark of resolved parent–offspring conflict,
 serving either to prevent escalated scramble competition or to enforce
 honest signaling. However, the theoretical assumption of costly
 solicitation has been called into question by the low level of energy
 expenditure measured empirically during begging. This finding has
 prompted new theoretical work that shows that begging can be cost-free
 and yet still resolve parent–offspring conflict. Here, I report that
 begging is more costly than recent work suggests. My experimental
 evidence from captive canaries demonstrates a marginal cost of begging
 through impaired growth. Furthermore, I argue that previous studies of
 energy expenditure during solicitation do not measure the cost of
 begging, as defined theoretically. More generally, my results may
 account for the evolution of nestling growth rates, as well as the
 observation that begging is typically most flamboyant in older
 offspring.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Inactivation of the CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid
 hydroxylase gene has provided an example of human-specific genomic
 mutation that results in a widespread biochemical difference between
 human and nonhuman primates. We have found that, although a region
 containing a 92-bp exon and an AluSq element in the
 hydroxylase gene is intact in all nonhuman primates examined, the same
 region in the human genome is replaced by an AluY
 element that was disseminated at least one million years ago. We
 propose a mechanistic model for this Alu-mediated
 replacement event, which deleted the 92-bp exon and thus inactivated
 the human hydroxylase gene. It is suggested that Alu
 elements have played potentially important roles in genotypic and
 phenotypic evolution in the hominid lineage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The neutrality theory predicts that the rate of neutral
 molecular evolution is constant over time, and thus that there is a
 molecular clock for timing evolutionary events. It has been observed
 that the variance of the rate of evolution is generally larger than
 expected according to the neutrality theory, which has raised the
 question of how reliable the molecular clock is or, indeed, whether
 there is a molecular clock at all. We have carried out an extensive
 investigation of three proteins, glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase
 (GPDH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH).
 We have observed that (i) the three proteins evolve
 erratically through time and across lineages and (ii)
 the erratic patterns of acceleration and deceleration differ from locus
 to locus, so that one locus may evolve faster in one than another
 lineage, whereas the opposite may be the case for another locus. The
 observations are inconsistent with the predictions made by various
 subsidiary hypotheses proposed to account for the overdispersion of the
 molecular clock.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sequence analysis of a 10-kb region of the genome of the marine
 cyanomyovirus S-PM2 reveals a homology to coliphage T4 that extends as
 a contiguous block from gene (g)18 to g23. The order of the S-PM2 genes
 in this region is similar to that of T4, but there are insertions and
 deletions of small ORFs of unknown function. In T4, g18 codes for the
 tail sheath, g19, the tail tube, g20, the head portal protein, g21, the
 prohead core protein, g22, a scaffolding protein, and g23, the major
 capsid protein. Thus, the entire module that determines the structural
 components of the phage head and contractile tail is conserved between
 T4 and this cyanophage. The significant differences in the morphology
 of these phages must reflect the considerable divergence of the amino
 acid sequence of their homologous virion proteins, which uniformly
 exceeds 50%. We suggest that their enormous diversity in the sea could
 be a result of genetic shuffling between disparate phages mediated by
 such commonly shared modules. These conserved sequences could
 facilitate genetic exchange by providing partially homologous
 substrates for recombination between otherwise divergent phage genomes.
 Such a mechanism would thus expand the pool of phage genes accessible
 by recombination to all those phages that share common modules.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The natural product neocarzinostatin (NCS), a protein–small
 molecule complex, exhibits potent antiproliferative activity in
 mammalian cells but has little apparent effect on the growth of the
 unicellular eukaryotic organism, Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae. Here, we show by whole-genome transcription
 profiling experiments that incubation of S. cerevisiae
 with NCS leads to dramatic and wide-ranging modifications in the
 expression profile of yeast genes. Approximately 18% of yeast
 transcripts are altered by 2-fold or more within 4 h of treatment
 with NCS. Analysis of the observed transcription profile provides
 evidence that yeast rapidly and continuously overexpress multiple
 DNA-damage repair genes during NCS exposure. Perhaps to meet the
 energetic requirements of continuous DNA-damage repair, yeast cells
 enter respiration upon prolonged exposure to NCS, although grown in
 nutrient-rich medium. The NCS protein component is readily transported
 into S. cerevisiae, as demonstrated by fluorescence
 microscopy of yeast treated with fluorescently labeled NCS.
 Transcription profiling experiments with neocarzinostatin protein alone
 implicate a specific resistance mechanism in yeast that targets the NCS
 protein component, one involving the nonclassical export pathway. These
 experiments provide a detailed picture of the effects of exposure to
 NCS upon yeast and the mechanisms they engage as a response to this
 protein–small molecule DNA-damaging agent.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We previously reported the construction of a P1-derived artificial
 chromosome (PAC) contig encompassing a set of homozygous deletions of
 chromosome 16q23–24.1 found in primary ovarian tumor material and
 several tumor cell lines. Using these PAC clones in a cDNA selection
 experiment, we have isolated a Sau3A fragment homologous
 to the WWOX transcript (GenBank accession no. AF211943)
 from normal human ovarian surface epithelial (HOSE) cells. We
 demonstrate the homozygous deletion of WWOX exons from
 ovarian cancer cells and three different tumor cell lines. We also
 identify an internally deleted WWOX transcript from a
 further primary ovarian tumor. In three of these samples the deletions
 result in frameshifts, and in each case the resulting
 WWOX transcripts lack part, or all, of the short chain
 dehydrogenase domain and the putative mitochondrial localization
 signal. Sequencing revealed several missense polymorphisms in tumor
 cell lines and identified a high level of single nucleotide
 polymorphism (SNP) within the WWOX gene. This evidence
 strengthens the case for WWOX as a tumor suppressor gene
 in ovarian cancer and other tumor types.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In Drosophila, heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1)
 suppresses the expression of euchromatic genes that are artificially
 translocated adjacent to heterochromatin by expanding heterochromatin
 structure into neighboring euchromatin. The purpose of this study was
 to determine whether HP1 functions as a transcriptional repressor in
 the absence of chromosome rearrangements. Here, we show that
 Drosophila HP1 normally represses the expression of four
 euchromatic genes in a dosage-dependent manner. Three genes regulated
 by HP1 map to cytological region 31 of chromosome 2, which is
 immunostained by anti-HP1 antibodies in the salivary gland. The
 repressive effect of HP1 is decreased by mutation in
 Su(var)3–9, whose mammalian orthologue encodes a
 histone H3 methyltransferase and mutation in
 Su(var)2–1, which is correlated with histone H4
 deacetylation. These data provide genetic evidence that an HP1-family
 protein represses the expression of euchromatic genes in a metazoan,
 and that histone modifiers cooperate with HP1 in euchromatic gene
 repression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The del22q11 syndrome is associated with a highly
 variable phenotype despite the uniformity of the chromosomal deletion
 that causes the disease in most patients. Df1/+ mice,
 which model del22q11, present with reduced penetrance of
 cardiovascular defects similar to those seen in deleted patients but
 not with other del22q11-like findings. The reduced
 penetrance of cardiovascular defects is caused by the ability of mutant
 embryos to recover from a fourth pharyngeal arch artery growth
 abnormality that is fully penetrant in early embryos. Here we show that
 genetic background has a major effect on penetrance of cardiovascular
 defects by affecting this embryonic recovery process. This effect could
 not be explained by allelic variation at the haploid locus, and it is
 likely to be caused by genetic modifiers elsewhere in the genome. We
 also show that genetic factors control extension of the
 Df1/+ phenotype to include thymic and parathyroid
 anomalies, establishing the Df1 mouse as a model for the
 genetic analysis of three major features of human
 del22q11 syndrome. We found that in
 Df1/+ mice, as in human patients, expression of the
 heart and thymic phenotypes are essentially independent from each
 other, suggesting that they may be controlled by different genetic
 modifiers. These data provide a framework for our understanding of
 phenotypic variability in patients with del22q11
 syndrome and the tools for its genetic dissection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Locus control regions (LCRs) are defined by their ability to confer
 high-level tissue-specific expression to linked genes in transgenic
 assays. Previously, we reported that, at its native site, the murine
 β-globin LCR is required for high-level β-globin gene expression,
 but is not required to initiate an open chromatin conformation of the
 locus. To further investigate the mechanism of LCR-mediated
 transcriptional enhancement, we have analyzed allele-specific
 β-globin expression and the pattern of histone acetylation in the
 presence and absence of the LCR. In single cells from mice heterozygous
 for a deletion of the LCR, β-globin expression from the LCR-deleted
 allele is consistently low (≈1–4% of wild type). Thus, the
 endogenous LCR enhances globin gene expression by
 increasing the rate of transcription from each linked allele rather
 than by increasing the probability of establishing transcription
 per se. Furthermore, in erythroid cells from mice
 homozygous for the highly expressing wild-type β-globin locus,
 hyperacetylation of histones H3 and H4 is localized to the LCR and
 active genes. In mice homozygous for the LCR deletion reduced histone
 hyperacetylation is observed in LCR proximal sequences; however,
 deletion of the LCR has no effect on the localized hyperacetylation of
 the genes. Together, our results suggest that, in its native genomic
 context, the LCR follows the rate model of enhancer function, and that
 the developmentally specific hyperacetylation of the globin genes is
 independent of both the rate of transcription and the presence of the
 LCR.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The gene encoding the rice transcription factor, REB
 (rice endosperm bZIP) was cloned
 from a bacterial artificial chromosome library of rice. The cloned
 6,227-bp-long Reb gene is composed of six exons and five
 introns and is flanked by a 1.2-kb 5′ promoter and a 1.2-kb 3′
 terminator region. The function of the Reb gene was
 explored by a transient assay by using a rice immature endosperm
 system. The effector constructs containing the native gene or fusion
 genes linking Reb to the rice actin (Act)
 or globulin (Glb) gene promoters and the reporter gene
 construct Glb-β-glucuronidase (GUS) were used in this study. When
 these effector constructs were cotransferred with the reporter
 uidA gene encoding GUS under the control of the
 Glb promoter into immature rice endosperm cells, the
 Glb promoter was activated. The transient GUS expression
 was 2.0 to 2.5-fold higher with the effector construct than without.
 When the upstream activation sequence containing the GCCACGT(A/C)AG
 motifs of the Glb promoter was deleted, the activation
 by REB was abolished. On the other hand, a gain-of-function experiment
 showed that inserting the upstream activation sequence into the
 glutelin-1 (Gt1) promoter made it responsive to
 activation by REB. When cotransformed with Reb gene,
 mature transgenic rice grains containing the human lysozyme gene driven
 by the Glb promoter produced 3.7-fold more lysozyme.
 Accumulation of recombinant lysozyme in mature seed ranged from 30.57
 to 279.61 μg⋅mg−1 total soluble protein in
 individual transformants from 30 independent transformation events.
 Thus, our results show that REB is not only a transcriptional
 activator, it can also be used to increase the expression of
 recombinant protein in transgenic rice grains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transgenic plants overexpressing the vacuolar
 H+-pyrophosphatase are much more resistant to high
 concentrations of NaCl and to water deprivation than the isogenic
 wild-type strains. These transgenic plants accumulate more
 Na+ and K+ in their leaf tissue than the wild
 type. Moreover, direct measurements on isolated vacuolar membrane
 vesicles derived from the AVP1 transgenic plants and
 from wild type demonstrate that the vesicles from the transgenic plants
 have enhanced cation uptake. The phenotypes of the AVP1
 transgenic plants suggest that increasing the vacuolar proton gradient
 results in increased solute accumulation and water retention.
 Presumably, sequestration of cations in the vacuole reduces their toxic
 effects. Genetically engineered drought- and salt-tolerant plants could
 provide an avenue to the reclamation of farmlands lost to
 agriculture because of salinity and a lack of rainfall.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Cre recombinase (Cre) from bacteriophage P1 is an important
 tool for genetic engineering in mammalian cells. We constructed
 lentiviral vectors that efficiently deliver Cre in vitro
 and in vivo. Surprisingly, we found a significant
 reduction in proliferation and an accumulation in the
 G2/M phase of Cre-expressing cells. To minimize the toxic
 effect of Cre, we designed a lentiviral vector that integrates into the
 host genome, expresses Cre in the target cell, and is subsequently
 deleted from the genome in a Cre-dependent manner. Thus, the activity
 of Cre terminates its own expression (self-deleting). We showed
 efficient modification of target genes in vitro and in
 the brain after transduction with the self-deleting vectors. In
 contrast to sustained Cre expression, transient expression of Cre from
 the self-deleting vector induced significantly less cytotoxicity. Such
 a self-deleting Cre vector is a promising tool for the induction of
 conditional gene modifications with minimal Cre toxicity in
 vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Oxygen radicals, which can be produced through normal cellular
 metabolism, are thought to play an important role in mutagenesis and
 tumorigenesis. Among various classes of oxidative DNA damage,
 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8-oxoG) is most important because of its
 abundance and mutagenicity. The MTH1 gene encodes an
 enzyme that hydrolyzes 8-oxo-dGTP to monophosphate in the nucleotide
 pool, thereby preventing occurrence of transversion mutations. By means
 of gene targeting, we have established MTH1
 gene-knockout cell lines and mice. When examined 18 months after birth,
 a greater number of tumors were formed in the lungs, livers, and
 stomachs of MTH1-deficient mice, as compared with
 wild-type mice. The MTH1-deficient mouse will provide a
 useful model for investigating the role of the MTH1 protein in normal
 conditions and under oxidative stress.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Prognostic and predictive factors are indispensable tools in
 the treatment of patients with neoplastic disease. For the most part,
 such factors rely on a few specific cell surface, histological, or
 gross pathologic features. Gene expression assays have the potential to
 supplement what were previously a few distinct features with many
 thousands of features. We have developed Bayesian regression models
 that provide predictive capability based on gene expression data
 derived from DNA microarray analysis of a series of primary breast
 cancer samples. These patterns have the capacity to discriminate breast
 tumors on the basis of estrogen receptor status and also on the
 categorized lymph node status. Importantly, we assess the utility and
 validity of such models in predicting the status of tumors in
 crossvalidation determinations. The practical value of such approaches
 relies on the ability not only to assess relative probabilities of
 clinical outcomes for future samples but also to provide an honest
 assessment of the uncertainties associated with such predictive
 classifications on the basis of the selection of gene subsets for each
 validation analysis. This latter point is of critical importance in the
 ability to apply these methodologies to clinical assessment of tumor
 phenotype.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The forkhead box (Fox) family of transcription factors share
 homology in the winged helix/forkhead DNA-binding domain and
 play important roles in regulating cellular proliferation,
 differentiation, longevity, and cellular transformation. Forkhead box
 M1B (FoxM1B) is a ubiquitously expressed member of the Fox
 transcription factor family whose expression is restricted to
 proliferating cells and that mediates hepatocyte entry into DNA
 synthesis and mitosis during liver regeneration. Recent cDNA microarray
 studies indicated that age-related defects in cellular proliferation
 are associated with diminished expression of the FoxM1B transcription
 factor. Here, we show that increased levels of FoxM1B in regenerating
 liver of old transgenic mice restore the sharp peaks in hepatocyte DNA
 replication and mitosis that are the hallmarks of young regenerating
 mouse liver. Restoration of the young regenerating liver phenotype is
 associated with increased expression of numerous cell cycle regulatory
 genes that include cyclin D1, cyclin A2, cyclin F, cyclin B1, cyclin
 B2, Cdc25B, and p55cdc. Cotransfection assays in the human hepatoma
 HepG2 cell line demonstrated that FoxM1B protein stimulated expression
 of both the cyclin B1 and cyclin D1 promoters, suggesting that these
 cyclin genes are a direct FoxM1B transcriptional target. These results
 suggest that FoxM1B controls the transcriptional network of genes that
 are essential for cell division and exit from mitosis. Our results
 indicate that reduced expression of the FoxM1B transcription factor
 contributes to the decline in cellular proliferation observed in the
 aging process.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transposable elements have been used widely in the past 20 years
 for gene transfer and insertional mutagenesis in
 Drosophila. Transposon-based technology for gene
 manipulation and genomic analysis currently is being adopted for
 vertebrates. We tested the ability of Minos, a DNA
 transposon from Drosophila hydei, to transpose in mouse
 tissues. Two transgenic mouse lines were crossed, one expressing
 Minos transposase in lymphocytes under the control of
 the CD2 promoter/locus control region and another carrying a
 nonautonomous Minos transposon. Only mice containing
 both transgenes show excision of the transposon and transposition into
 new chromosomal sites in thymus and spleen cells. In addition,
 expression of Minos transposase in embryonic fibroblast
 cell lines derived from a transposon-carrying transgenic mouse resulted
 in excision of the transposon. These results are a first step toward a
 reversible insertional mutagenesis system in the mouse, opening the way
 to develop powerful technologies for functional genomic analysis in
 mammals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Association studies based on linkage disequilibrium (LD) can
 provide high resolution for identifying genes that may contribute to
 phenotypic variation. We report patterns of local and genome-wide LD in
 102 maize inbred lines representing much of the worldwide genetic
 diversity used in maize breeding, and address its implications for
 association studies in maize. In a survey of six genes, we found that
 intragenic LD generally declined rapidly with distance
 (r2 < 0.1 within 1500 bp), but rates
 of decline were highly variable among genes. This rapid decline
 probably reflects large effective population sizes in maize during its
 evolution and high levels of recombination within genes. A set of 47
 simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci showed stronger evidence of
 genome-wide LD than did single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in
 candidate genes. LD was greatly reduced but not eliminated by grouping
 lines into three empirically determined subpopulations. SSR data also
 supplied evidence that divergent artificial selection on flowering time
 may have played a role in generating population structure. Provided the
 effects of population structure are effectively controlled, this
 research suggests that association studies show great promise for
 identifying the genetic basis of important traits in maize with very
 high resolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have searched for genes predisposing to bipolar disorder (BP) by
 studying individuals with the most extreme form of the affected
 phenotype, BP-I, ascertained from the genetically isolated population
 of the Central Valley of Costa Rica (CVCR). The results of a previous
 linkage analysis on two extended CVCR BP-I pedigrees, CR001 and CR004,
 and of linkage disequilibrium (LD) analyses of a CVCR population sample
 of BP-I patients implicated a candidate region on 18p11.3. We further
 investigated this region by creating a physical map and developing 4
 new microsatellite and 26 single-nucleotide polymorphism markers for
 typing in the pedigree and population samples. We report the results of
 fine-scale association analyses in the population sample, as well as
 evaluation of haplotypes in pedigree CR001. Our results suggest a
 candidate region containing six genes but also highlight the
 complexities of LD mapping of common disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report that complete protection against malaria and total
 inhibition of liver stage development and parasitemia was obtained in
 100% of BALB/c mice primed with a replication-defective recombinant
 adenovirus expressing the circumsporozoite (CS) protein of
 Plasmodium yoelii (AdPyCS), followed by a booster with
 an attenuated recombinant vaccinia virus, expressing the same malaria
 antigen, VacPyCS. We found increased levels of activated CS-specific
 CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, higher anti-sporozoite
 antibody titers, and greater protection in these mice, when the time
 between priming and boosting with these two viral vectors was extended
 from 2 to 8 or more weeks. Most importantly, by using this immunization
 regimen, the protection of the immunized mice was found to be
 long-lasting, namely complete resistance to infection of all animals 3
 1/2 months after priming. These results indicate that immunization
 with AdPyCS generates highly effective memory T and B cells that can be
 recalled long after priming by boosting with VacPyCS.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite the widespread use of bacillus Calmette–Guérin
 vaccination, Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection
 remains globally the leading cause of death from a single infectious
 disease. The complicated and often protracted dynamics of infection and
 disease make clinical trials to test new tuberculosis vaccines
 extremely complex. Preclinical selection of only the most promising
 candidates is therefore essential. Because macaque monkeys develop a
 disease very similar to humans, they have potential to provide
 important information in addition to small animal models. To assess the
 relative merits of rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys as screens for
 tuberculosis vaccines, we compared the efficacy of bacillus
 Calmette–Guérin vaccination and the course of infection in both
 species. Unvaccinated rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys both developed
 progressive disease with high levels of C-reactive protein, M.
 tuberculosis-specific IgG, and extensive pathology including
 cavitation and caseous necrosis. Bacillus Calmette–Guérin
 vaccination protected cynomolgus almost completely toward the
 development of pathology, reflected in a striking 2-log reduction in
 viable bacteria in the lungs compared with nonvaccinated animals.
 Rhesus, on the other hand, were not protected efficiently by the
 bacillus Calmette–Guérin. The vaccinated animals developed
 substantial pathology and had negligible reductions of colony-forming
 units in the lungs. Comparative studies in these closely related
 species are likely to provide insight into mechanisms involved in
 protection against tuberculosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sepsis remains a significant clinical conundrum, and recent
 clinical trials with anticytokine therapies have produced disappointing
 results. Animal studies have suggested that increased lymphocyte
 apoptosis may contribute to sepsis-induced mortality. We report
 here that inhibition of thymocyte apoptosis by targeted
 adenovirus-induced thymic expression of human IL-10 reduced blood
 bacteremia and prevented mortality in sepsis. In contrast, systemic
 administration of an adenovirus expressing IL-10 was without any
 protective effect. Improvements in survival were associated with
 increases in Bcl-2 expression and reductions in caspase-3 activity and
 thymocyte apoptosis. These studies demonstrate that thymic
 apoptosis plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of sepsis
 and identifies a gene therapy approach for its therapeutic
 intervention.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An experimental application of fluorescence correlation
 spectroscopy is presented for the detection and identification of
 fluorophores and auto-Abs in solution. The recording time is between 2
 and 60 sec. Because the actual number of molecules in the unit volume
 (confocal detection volume of about 1 fl) is integer or zero, the
 fluorescence generated by the molecules is discontinuous when
 single-molecule sensitivity is achieved. We first show that the
 observable probability, N, to find a single fluorescent
 molecule in the very tiny space element of the unit volume is
 Poisson-distributed below a critical bulk concentration c*. The
 measured probability means we have traced, for example, 5 ×
 1010 fluorophore molecules per ml of bulk solution. The
 probability is related to the average frequency, C, that
 the volume of detection contains a single fluorescent molecule and to
 the concentration, c, of the bulk solution. The
 analytical sensitivity of an assay is calculated from the average
 frequency C. In the Goodpasture experiment, we
 determined as analytical sensitivity a probability of 99.1% of
 identifying one single immune complex. Under these conditions, a single
 molecule event is proven. There exist no instrumental assumptions of
 our approach on which the experiment itself, the theoretical
 background, or the conclusion are based. Our results open up a broad
 field for analytics and diagnostics in solution, especially in
 immunology.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The concept for cellular immunotherapy of solid tumors relies
 heavily on the capacity of class I MHC-restricted cytotoxic T
 lymphocytes (CTLs) to eliminate tumor cells. However, tumors often have
 managed to escape from the cytolytic machinery of these effector cells.
 Therefore, it is very important to chart the mechanisms through which
 this escape can occur. Target-cell killing by CTLs involves the
 induction of apoptosis by two major mechanisms: through death
 receptors and the perforin/granzyme B (GrB) pathway. Whereas tumors
 previously were shown to exhibit mechanisms for blocking the death
 receptor pathway, we now demonstrate that they also can resist
 CTL-mediated killing through interference with the perforin/GrB
 pathway. This escape mechanism involves expression of the serine
 protease inhibitor PI-9/SPI-6, which inactivates the
 apoptotic effector molecule GrB. Expression of PI-9 was
 observed in a variety of human and murine tumors. Moreover, we show
 that, indeed, expression results in the resistance of tumor cells to
 CTL-mediated killing both in vitro and in vivo.
 Our data reveal that PI-9/SPI-6 is an important parameter determining
 the success of T cell-based immunotherapeutic modalities against
 cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In 1986, Kärre and colleagues reported that natural killer
 (NK) cells rejected an MHC class I-deficient tumor cell line (RMA-S)
 but they did not reject the same cell line if it expressed MHC class I
 (RMA). Based on this observation, they proposed the concept that NK
 cells provide immune surveillance for “missing self,” e.g., they
 eliminate cells that have lost class I MHC antigens. This seminal
 observation predicted the existence of inhibitory NK cell receptors for
 MHC class I. Here, we present evidence that NK cells are able to reject
 tumors expressing MHC class I if the tumor expresses a ligand for
 NKG2D. Mock-transfected RMA cells resulted in tumor formation. In
 contrast, when RMA cells were transfected with the retinoic acid early
 inducible gene-1 γ or δ (RAE-1), ligands for the activating
 receptor NKG2D, the tumors were rejected. The tumor rejection was
 mediated by NK cells, and not by CD1-restricted NK1.1+ T
 cells. No T cell-mediated immunological memory against the parental
 tumor was generated in the animals that had rejected the RAE-1
 transfected tumors, which succumbed to rechallenge with the parental
 RMA tumor. Therefore, NK cells are able to reject a tumor expressing
 RAE-1 molecules, despite expression of self MHC class I on the tumor,
 demonstrating the potential for NK cells to participate in immunity
 against class I-bearing malignancies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aggregation of the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcɛRI) on mast
 cells activates a tyrosine phosphorylation cascade that is required for
 adhesion and degranulation events leading to the release of histamine
 and other inflammatory mediators. The full range of intracellular
 mediators that regulate this process is unknown. Recent studies have
 identified a group of immune cell-specific adaptor proteins that
 include linker for activation of T-cell (LAT), SH2-domain-containing
 leukocyte protein (SLP-76), and Fyn-T-binding protein
 (FYB)/SLP-76-associated protein (SLAP). In this study, we demonstrate
 that FYB can up-regulate integrin-mediated adhesion to fibronectin and
 mediator release in RBL-2H3 mast cells. The regulation of these two
 events could be distinguished from each other by the requirement of the
 FYB SH3 domain in β-hexosaminidase release, but not adhesion, and the
 up-regulation of mediator release by FYB in nonadherent cells. FcɛRI
 aggregation increased FYB tyrosine phosphorylation, whereas confocal
 immunofluorescence microscopy showed that FYB colocalizes with F-actin
 in membrane ruffles and plaques. Our findings identify FYB as a
 regulator of integrin-mediated adhesion and degranulation events,
 which, in the case of mast cells, has potential applications to
 inflammatory and allergic responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Type 1 diabetes in both humans and nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice
 results from T-cell-mediated autoimmune destruction of
 insulin-producing pancreatic β cells. Linkage studies have shown that
 type 1 diabetes in NOD mice is a polygenic disease involving more than
 15 chromosomal susceptibility regions. Despite extensive investigation,
 the identification of individual susceptibility genes either within or
 outside the major histocompatibility complex region has proven
 problematic because of the limitations of linkage analysis. In this
 paper, we provide evidence implicating a single diabetes susceptibility
 gene, which lies outside the major histocompatibility complex region.
 Using allelic reconstitution by transgenic rescue, we show that NOD
 mice expressing the β2 microglobulin
 (β2M)a allele develop diabetes, whereas NOD
 mice expressing a murine β2Mb or human allele
 are protected. The murine β2Ma allele differs
 from the β2Mb allele only at a single amino
 acid. Mechanistic studies indicate that the absence of the NOD
 β2Ma isoform on nonhematopoietic cells
 inhibits the development or activation of diabetogenic T cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Oral immunogenicity of recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen
 (HBsAg) derived from yeast (purified product) or in transgenic potatoes
 (uncooked unprocessed sample) was compared. An oral adjuvant, cholera
 toxin, was used to increase immune responses. Transgenic plant material
 containing HBsAg was the superior means of both inducing a primary
 immune response and priming the mice to respond to a subsequent
 parenteral injection of HBsAg. Electron microscopy of transgenic plant
 samples revealed evidence that the HBsAg accumulated intracellularly;
 we conclude that natural bioencapsulation of the antigen may provide
 protection from degradation in the digestive tract until plant cell
 degradation occurs near an immune effector site in the gut. The
 correlate of protection from hepatitis B virus infection is serum
 antibody titers induced by vaccination; the protective level in humans
 is 10 milliunits/ml or greater. Mice fed HBsAg-transgenic potatoes
 produced HBsAg-specific serum antibodies that exceeded the protective
 level and, on parenteral boosting, generated a strong long-lasting
 secondary antibody response. We have also shown the effectiveness of
 oral delivery by using a parenteral prime-oral boost immunization
 schedule. The demonstrated success of oral immunization for hepatitis B
 virus with an “edible vaccine” provides a strategy for
 contributing a means to achieve global immunization for hepatitis B
 prevention and eradication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Overcoming immune tolerance of the growth factors associated with
 tumor growth should be a useful approach to cancer therapy by active
 immunity. We used vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as a model
 antigen to explore the feasibility of the immunogene tumor therapy with
 a vaccine based on a single xenogeneic homologous gene, targeting the
 growth factors associated with angiogenesis. To test this concept, we
 constructed a plasmid DNA encoding Xenopus homologous
 VEGF (XVEGF-p) and control vectors. We found that immunogene tumor
 therapy with a vaccine based on XVEGF was effective at both protective
 and therapeutic antitumor immunity in several tumor models in mice.
 VEGF-specific autoantibodies in sera of mice immunized with XVEGF-p
 could be found in Western blotting analysis and ELISA assay. The
 purified immunoglobulins were effective at the inhibition of
 VEGF-mediated endothelial cell proliferation in
 vitro, and at antitumor activity and the inhibition of
 angiogenesis by adoptive transfer in vivo. The elevation
 of VEGF in the sera of the tumor-bearing mice could be abrogated with
 XVEGF-p immunization. The antitumor activity and production of
 VEGF-specific autoantibodies, significantly elevated IgG1 and IgG2b,
 could be abrogated by the depletion of CD4+ T lymphocytes.
 The observations may provide a vaccine strategy for cancer therapy
 through the induction of autoimmunity against the growth factors
 associated with tumor growth in a cross reaction with single xenogeneic
 homologous gene and may be of importance in the further exploration of
 the applications of other xenogeneic homologous genes identified in
 human and other animal genome sequence projects in cancer therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We tested the ability of avicins, a family of triterpenoid saponins
 obtained from Acacia victoriae (Bentham) (Leguminosae:
 Mimosoideae), to inhibit chemically induced mouse skin carcinogenesis.
 Varying doses of avicins were applied to shaved dorsal skin of SENCAR
 mice 15 min before application of 100 nmol of
 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) twice a week for
 4 weeks (complete carcinogenesis model). The dorsal skin of a second
 group of mice was treated with one dose of 10 nmol of DMBA. Avicins
 were then applied 15 min before repetitive doses of 2 μg of phorbol
 12-tetradecanoate 13-acetate (TPA) twice a week for 8 weeks
 (initiation/promotion model). At 12 weeks, avicins produced a 70%
 decrease in the number of mice with papillomas and a greater than 90%
 reduction in the number of papillomas per mouse in both protocols. We
 also observed a 62% and 74% reduction by avicins in
 H-ras mutations at codon 61 in the DMBA and DMBA/TPA
 models, respectively, as well as a significant inhibition of the
 modified DNA base formation (8-OH-dG) in both protocols. Marked
 suppression of aneuploidy occurred with treatment at 16 weeks in the
 initiation/promotion experiment. These findings, when combined with
 the proapoptotic property of these compounds and their ability
 to inhibit hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) generation,
 nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation, and inducible nitric oxide
 synthase (iNOS) induction reported elsewhere, suggest that avicins
 could prove exciting in reducing oxidative and nitrosative stress and
 thereby suppressing the development of human skin cancer and other
 epithelial malignancies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Triterpenoid saponins, which are present in leguminous plants and
 some marine animals, possess a broad range of biological actions. We
 have earlier reported the extraction of avicins, a family of
 triterpenoid saponins obtained from the Australian desert tree
 Acacia victoriae (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) that inhibit
 tumor cell growth and induce apoptosis, in part, by perturbing
 mitochondrial function. These saponins have also been found to prevent
 chemical-induced carcinogenesis in mice. This study examines the effect
 of a triterpene mixture (F094) and a single molecular species (avicin
 G) isolated from the mixture on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced
 activation of nuclear transcription factor-κB (NF-κB) in Jurkat
 cells (human T cell leukemia). Both F094 and avicin G were found to be
 potent inhibitors of TNF-induced NF-κB. Treatment of Jurkat cells
 with avicin G resulted in a much slower accumulation of the p65 subunit
 of NF-κB into the nucleus whereas the degradation of IκBα was
 unaffected. Avicin G also impaired the binding of NF-κB to DNA in
 in vitro binding assays. Treatment of cells with DTT
 totally reversed the avicin G-induced inhibition of NF-κB activity,
 suggesting that sulfhydryl groups critical for NF-κB activation were
 being affected. Avicin G treatment resulted in decreased expression of
 NF-κB-regulated proteins such as inducible nitric oxide synthase
 (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase (COX-2). Thus, the avicins may prove
 important for reducing both oxidative and nitrosative cellular stress
 and thereby suppressing the development of malignancies and related
 diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The PTEN gene encodes a lipid phosphatase that
 negatively regulates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway and is
 inactivated in a wide variety of malignant neoplasms. High rates of
 loss of heterozygosity are observed at the 10q23.3 region containing
 the human PTEN gene in prostate cancer and other human
 malignancies, but the demonstrated rate of biallelic inactivation of
 the PTEN gene by mutation or homozygous deletion is
 significantly lower than the rate of loss of heterozygosity. The
 transgenic adenocarcinoma of mouse prostate model is a well
 characterized animal model of prostate cancer. Analysis of prostate
 cancer progression in transgenic adenocarcinoma of mouse prostate mice
 bred to Pten+/− heterozygous mice, coupled
 with analysis of the Pten gene and protein in the
 resulting tumors, reveals that haploinsufficiency of the
 Pten gene promotes the progression of prostate cancer in
 this model system. This observation provides a potential explanation
 for the discordance in rates of loss of heterozygosity at 10q23 and
 biallelic PTEN inactivation observed in prostate cancer
 and many human malignancies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Brain subjected to acute ischemic attack caused by an arterial
 blockage needs immediate arterial recanalization. However, restoration
 of cerebral blood flow can cause tissue injury, which is termed
 reperfusion injury. It is important to inhibit reperfusion injury to
 achieve greater brain protection. Because oxidative stress has been
 shown to activate mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and
 because oxidative stress contributes to reperfusion injury, MAPK may be
 a potential target to inhibit reperfusion injury after brain ischemia.
 Here, we demonstrate that reperfusion after forebrain ischemia
 dramatically increases phosphorylation level of extracellular
 signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) in the gerbil hippocampus. In
 addition, i.v. administration of U0126 (100–200 mg/kg), a specific
 inhibitor of MEK (MAPK/ERK kinase), protects the hippocampus against
 forebrain ischemia. Moreover, treatment with U0126 at 3 h after
 ischemia significantly reduces infarct volume after transient (3 h)
 focal cerebral ischemia in mice. This protection is accompanied by
 reduced phosphorylation level of ERK2, substrates for MEK, in the
 damaged brain areas. Furthermore, U0126 protects mouse primary cultured
 cortical neurons against oxygen deprivation for 9 h as well as
 nitric oxide toxicity. These results provide further evidence for the
 role of MEK/ERK activation in brain injury resulting from
 ischemia/reperfusion, and indicate that MEK inhibition may increase
 the resistance of tissue to ischemic injury.
DOC DONE!Abstract
One of the many biological functions of nitric oxide is the
 ability to protect cells from oxidative stress. To investigate the
 potential contribution of low steady state levels of nitric oxide
 generated by endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and the
 mechanisms of protection against H2O2,
 spontaneously transformed human ECV304 cells, which normally do not
 express eNOS, were stably transfected with a green fluorescent-tagged
 eNOS cDNA. The eNOS-transfected cells were found to be resistant to
 injury and delayed death following a 2-h exposure to
 H2O2 (50–150 μM). Inhibition of nitric oxide
 synthesis abolished the protective effect against
 H2O2 exposure. The ability of nitric oxide to
 protect cells depended on the presence of respiring mitochondria as
 ECV304+eNOS cells with diminished mitochondria respiration
 (ρ−) are injured to the same extent as nontransfected
 ECV304 cells and recovery of mitochondrial respiration restores the
 ability of nitric oxide to protect against
 H2O2-induced death. Nitric oxide also found to
 have a profound effect in cell metabolism, because ECV304+eNOS cells
 had lower steady state levels of ATP and higher utilization of glucose
 via the glycolytic pathway than ECV304 cells. However, the protective
 effect of nitric oxide against H2O2 exposure is
 not reproduced in ECV304 cells after treatment with azide and
 oligomycin suggesting that the dynamic regulation of respiration by
 nitric oxide represent a critical and unrecognized primary line of
 defense against oxidative stress.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bone destruction, caused by aberrant production and activation of
 osteoclasts, is a prominent feature of multiple myeloma. We demonstrate
 that myeloma stimulates osteoclastogenesis by triggering a coordinated
 increase in the tumor necrosis factor-related activation-induced
 cytokine (TRANCE) and decrease in its decoy receptor, osteoprotegerin
 (OPG). Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization
 studies of bone marrow specimens indicate that in vivo,
 deregulation of the TRANCE–OPG cytokine axis occurs in myeloma, but
 not in the limited plasma cell disorder monoclonal gammopathy of
 unknown significance or in nonmyeloma hematologic malignancies. In
 coculture, myeloma cell lines stimulate expression of TRANCE and
 inhibit expression of OPG by stromal cells. Osteoclastogenesis, the
 functional consequence of increased TRANCE expression, is counteracted
 by addition of a recombinant TRANCE inhibitor, RANK-Fc, to
 marrow/myeloma cocultures. Myeloma–stroma interaction also has been
 postulated to support progression of the malignant clone. In the
 SCID-hu murine model of human myeloma, administration of RANK-Fc both
 prevents myeloma-induced bone destruction and interferes with myeloma
 progression. Our data identify TRANCE and OPG as key cytokines whose
 deregulation promotes bone destruction and supports myeloma growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) binds preferentially to lower
 density lipoproteins, including very low density lipoproteins, and is
 associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis and neurodegenerative
 disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. This binding preference is
 the result of the presence of Arg-112, which causes Arg-61 in the
 amino-terminal domain to interact with Glu-255 in the carboxyl-terminal
 domain. ApoE2 and apoE3, which have Cys-112, bind preferentially to
 high density lipoproteins (HDL) and do not display apoE4 domain
 interaction. Mouse apoE, like apoE4, contains the equivalent of Arg-112
 and Glu-255, but lacks the critical Arg-61 equivalent (it contains
 Thr-61). Thus, mouse apoE does not display apoE4 domain interaction
 and, as a result, behaves like human apoE3, including preferential
 binding to HDL. To assess the potential role of apoE4 domain
 interaction in atherosclerosis and neurodegeneration, we sought to
 introduce apoE4 domain interaction into mouse apoE. Replacing Thr-61 in
 mouse apoE with arginine converted the binding preference from HDL to
 very low density lipoproteins in vitro, suggesting that
 apoE4 domain interaction could be introduced into mouse apoE in
 vivo. Using gene targeting in embryonic stem cells, we created
 mice expressing Arg-61 apoE. Heterozygous Arg-61/wild-type apoE mice
 displayed two phenotypes found in human apoE4/E3 heterozygotes:
 preferential binding to lower density lipoproteins and reduced
 abundance of Arg-61 apoE in the plasma, reflecting its more rapid
 catabolism. These findings demonstrate the successful introduction of
 apoE4 domain interaction into mouse apoE in vivo. The
 Arg-61 apoE mouse model will allow the effects of apoE4 domain
 interaction in lipoprotein metabolism, atherosclerosis, and
 neurodegeneration to be determined.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) detoxify
 potentially mutagenic and toxic DNA-reactive electrophiles, including
 metabolites of several chemotherapeutic agents, some of which are
 suspected human carcinogens. Functional polymorphisms exist in at least
 three genes that encode GSTs, including GSTM1,
GSTT1, and GSTP1. We hypothesize,
 therefore, that polymorphisms in genes that encode GSTs alter
 susceptibility to chemotherapy-induced carcinogenesis, specifically to
 therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (t-AML), a devastating
 complication of long-term cancer survival. Elucidation of genetic
 determinants may help to identify individuals at increased risk of
 developing t-AML. To this end, we have examined 89 cases of t-AML, 420
 cases of de novo AML, and 1,022 controls for
 polymorphisms in GSTM1, GSTT1, and
 GSTP1. Gene deletion of GSTM1 or
 GSTT1 was not specifically associated with
 susceptibility to t-AML. Individuals with at least one
 GSTP1 codon 105 Val allele were significantly
 over-represented in t-AML cases compared with de novo
 AML cases [odds ratio (OR), 1.81; 95% confidence interval (CI),
 1.11–2.94]. Moreover, relative to de novo AML, the
 GSTP1 codon 105 Val allele occurred more often among
 t-AML patients with prior exposure to chemotherapy (OR, 2.66; 95% CI,
 1.39–5.09), particularly among those with prior exposure to known
 GSTP1 substrates (OR, 4.34; 95% CI, 1.43–13.20), and not among those
 t-AML patients with prior exposure to radiotherapy alone (OR,1.01; 95%
 CI, 0.50–2.07). These data suggest that inheritance of at least one
 Val allele at GSTP1 codon 105 confers a significantly
 increased risk of developing t-AML after cytotoxic chemotherapy, but
 not after radiotherapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Mdm2 oncoprotein promotes cell survival and cell cycle
 progression by inhibiting the p53 tumor suppressor protein. To regulate
 p53, Mdm2 must gain nuclear entry, and the mechanism that induces this
 is now identified. Mitogen-induced activation of phosphatidylinositol
 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) and its downstream target, the Akt/PKB
 serine-threonine kinase, results in phosphorylation of Mdm2 on serine
 166 and serine 186. Phosphorylation on these sites is necessary for
 translocation of Mdm2 from the cytoplasm into the nucleus.
 Pharmacological blockade of PI3-kinase/Akt signaling or expression of
 dominant-negative PI3-kinase or Akt inhibits nuclear entry of Mdm2,
 increases cellular levels of p53, and augments p53 transcriptional
 activity. Expression of constitutively active Akt promotes nuclear
 entry of Mdm2, diminishes cellular levels of p53, and decreases p53
 transcriptional activity. Mutation of the Akt phosphorylation sites in
 Mdm2 produces a mutant protein that is unable to enter the nucleus and
 increases p53 activity. The demonstration that PI3-kinase/Akt
 signaling affects Mdm2 localization provides insight into how this
 pathway, which is inappropriately activated in many malignancies,
 affects the function of p53.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In addition to essential nutrients, human milk contains
 several classes of bioactive factors such as enzymes, hormones, and
 growth factors, many of which are implicated in infantile growth and
 development. Secretory carbonic anhydrase isoenzyme VI (CA VI) has been
 identified earlier as an essential component of mammalian saliva, and
 we demonstrate here by using biochemical and immunohistochemical
 techniques that it is also an elementary component of milk. The 42-kDa
 glycopolypeptide purified from human milk in CA inhibitor affinity
 chromatography shared 100% homology with salivary CA VI in the protein
 sequence analysis (40% coverage), and its digestion with PNGase F
 resulted in a polypeptide backbone similar in size to salivary CA VI.
 Quantification of CA VI in milk by using a time-resolved
 immunofluorometric assay revealed an approximately eight-times-higher
 concentration in human colostrum than in mature milk, the latter
 corresponding to the levels previously detected in human saliva. The
 high concentration in the colostrum, in particular its functional and
 structural stability in an acidic milieu, and its growth-supporting
 role in the taste buds suggest that milk CA VI is an essential factor
 in normal growth and development of the infant alimentary tract.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Identification of previously unrecognized viral agents in serum or
 plasma samples is of great medical interest but remains a major
 challenge, primarily because of abundant host DNA. The current methods,
 library screening or representational difference analysis (RDA), are
 very laborious and require selected sample sets. We have developed a
 simple and reproducible method for discovering viruses in single serum
 samples that is based on DNase treatment of the serum followed by
 restriction enzyme digestion and sequence-independent single primer
 amplification (SISPA) of the fragments, and have evaluated its
 performance on known viruses. Both DNA viruses and RNA viruses at a
 concentration of ≈106 genome equivalents per ml were
 reproducibly identified in 50 μl of serum. While evaluating the
 method, two previously unknown parvoviruses were discovered in the
 bovine sera used as diluent. The near complete genome sequence of each
 virus was determined; their classification as two species
 (provisionally named bovine parvoviruses 2 and 3) was confirmed by
 phylogenetic analysis. Both viruses were found to be frequent
 contaminants of commercial bovine serum. DNase treatment of serum
 samples may prove to be a very useful tool for virus discovery. The
 DNase-SISPA method is suitable for screening of a large number of
 samples and also enables rapid sequence determination of high-titer
 viruses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) respiration is carried
 out mainly by the Tor system in Escherichia coli. This
 system is encoded by the torCAD operon and comprises a
 periplasmic TMAO reductase (TorA) and a c-type
 cytochrome (TorC), which shuttles electrons to TorA. Expression of the
 tor operon is positively controlled by the
 TorS/TorR phosphorelay system in response to TMAO availability
 and negatively regulated by apocytochrome TorC. Interaction studies
 showed that, when immature, TorC can no longer bind TorA efficiently
 but can bind the periplasmic detector region of sensor TorS. ApoTorC
 negative autoregulation and TMAO induction are thus mediated by the
 same sensor protein. As apocytochromes related to TorC could not
 down-regulate the tor operon, we concluded that this
 negative control is highly specific. Moreover, the N-terminal half of
 apoTorC played no role in this control but the immature C-terminal
 domain of TorC strongly down-regulated the tor operon
 and interacted with the TorS detector region. This sophisticated
 autoregulatory pathway thus involves the C-terminal domain of apoTorC
 and allows optimal TorC biogenesis by preventing from saturation the
 c-type cytochrome maturation machinery.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Spore formation by the bacterium Bacillus subtilis
 has long been studied as a model for cellular differentiation, but
 predominantly as a single cell. When analyzed within the context of
 highly structured, surface-associated communities (biofilms), spore
 formation was discovered to have heretofore unsuspected spatial
 organization. Initially, motile cells differentiated into aligned
 chains of attached cells that eventually produced aerial structures, or
 fruiting bodies, that served as preferential sites for sporulation.
 Fruiting body formation depended on regulatory genes required early in
 sporulation and on genes evidently needed for exopolysaccharide and
 surfactin production. The formation of aerial structures was robust in
 natural isolates but not in laboratory strains, an indication that
 multicellularity has been lost during domestication of B.
 subtilis. Other microbial differentiation processes long
 thought to involve only single cells could display the spatial
 organization characteristic of multicellular organisms when studied
 with recent natural isolates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The interaction between DNA polymerases and sliding clamp proteins
 confers processivity in DNA synthesis. This interaction is critical for
 most DNA replication machines from viruses and prokaryotes to higher
 eukaryotes. The clamp proteins also participate in a variety of dynamic
 and competing protein–protein interactions. However, clamp-protein
 binding sequences have not so far been identified in the eubacteria.
 Here we show from three lines of evidence, bioinformatics, yeast
 two-hybrid analysis, and inhibition of protein–protein interaction by
 modified peptides, that variants of a pentapeptide motif (consensus
 QL[SD]LF) are sufficient to enable interaction of a number of
 proteins with an archetypal eubacterial sliding clamp (the β subunit
 of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase III holoenzyme).
 Representatives of this motif are present in most sequenced members of
 the eubacterial DnaE, PolC, PolB, DinB, and UmuC families of DNA
 polymerases and the MutS1 mismatch repair protein family. The component
 tripeptide DLF inhibits the binding of the α (DnaE) subunit of
 E. coli DNA polymerase III to β at μM concentration,
 identifying key residues. Comparison of the eubacterial, eukaryotic,
 and archaeal sliding clamp binding motifs suggests that the basic
 interactions have been conserved across the evolutionary landscape.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen
 that controls numerous virulence factors through intercellular signals.
 This bacterium has two quorum-sensing systems (las and
 rhl), which act through the intercellular signals
 N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-l-homoserine lactone
 (3-oxo-C12-HSL) and
 N-butyryl-l-homoserine lactone
 (C4-HSL), respectively. P. aeruginosa also
 produces a third intercellular signal that is involved in virulence
 factor regulation. This signal, 2-heptyl-3-hydroxy-4-quinolone
 [referred to as the Pseudomonas quinolone signal
 (PQS)], is a secondary metabolite that is part of the P.
 aeruginosa quorum-sensing hierarchy. PQS can induce both
 lasB (encodes LasB elastase) and rhlI
 (encodes the C4-HSL synthase) in P.
 aeruginosa and is produced maximally during the late stationary
 phase of growth. Because PQS is an intercellular signal that is part of
 the quorum-sensing hierarchy and controls multiple virulence factors,
 we began basic studies designed to elucidate its biosynthetic pathway.
 First, we present data that strongly suggest that anthranilate is a
 precursor for PQS. P. aeruginosa converted radiolabeled
 anthranilate into radioactive PQS, which was bioactive. We also found
 that an anthranilate analog (methyl anthranilate) would inhibit the
 production of PQS. This analog was then shown to have a major negative
 effect on elastase production by P. aeruginosa. These
 data provide evidence that precursors of intercellular signals may
 provide viable targets for the development of therapeutic treatments
 that will reduce P. aeruginosa virulence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) secretes
 several Esp proteins via the type III secretion system (secreton).
 EspA, EspB, and EspD are required for translocation of the effector
 proteins into host cells, in which EspB and EspD are thought to form a
 pore in the host membrane. Recent study has shown that EspA forms a
 filamentous structure that assembles as a physical bridge between
 bacteria and host cell surfaces, which then functions as a conduit for
 the translocation of bacterial effectors into host cells. To
 investigate the supermolecular structure of the type III secreton in
 EPEC, we partially purified it from the bacteria membrane and observed
 it via transmission electron microscopy. The EPEC type III secreton was
 composed of a basal body and a needle part and was similar to those of
 Salmonella and Shigella, except for a
 sheath-like structure at the tip of the needle. The length of
 sheath-like structures varied; it extended more than 600 nm and was 10
 times longer than the Shigella needle part. The putative
 major needle component, EscF, was required for both secretion of Esp
 proteins and needle complex formation. Interestingly, elongation of the
 sheath-like structure was observed under constitutive expression of
 EspA but not of EscF. Furthermore, the transmission electron microscopy
 view with immunogold labeled anti-EspA antibodies clearly showed that
 EspA is a component of the sheath-like structure. This study revealed,
 to our knowledge for the first time, the supermolecular structure of
 the EPEC type III secreton and its direct association with the
 EspA-sheath-like structure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stimulation with antibodies to CD3 and CD28 coimmobilized on beads
 can be used to significantly expand T cells ex vivo.
 With CD4 T cells from HIV-infected patients, this expansion usually is
 accompanied by complete suppression of viral replication, presumed to
 be caused by down-regulation of the viral coreceptor CCR5 and
 up-regulation of CCR5 ligands. Here we show that this suppression
 occurs in total CD4 T cells acutely infected with R5 HIV, but not in
 purified CD62L− memory CD4 T cells. The lack of complete
 suppression in these memory cells, typically comprising 10–40% of
 total CD4 T cells, occurs despite high levels of CCR5 ligand secretion
 and down-regulation of CCR5. Significantly, adding back naïve
 or CD62L+ memory CD4 T cells inhibits the viral replication
 in the CD62L− cells, with the naïve cells capable
 of completely repressing the virus. Although this inhibition was
 previously thought to be specific to bead-bound anti-CD3/CD28
 stimulation, we show that the same suppression is obtained with
 sufficiently strong anti-CD3/B7.1 stimulation. Our results show that
 inhibitory mechanisms, expressed predominantly by strongly stimulated
 naïve CD4 T cells and mediated independently of CCR5-binding
 chemokines, play a role in the inhibition of R5 HIV replication in CD4
 T cells upon CD28 costimulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurodevelopmental models for the pathology of schizophrenia
 propose both polygenetic and environmental risks, as well as early
 (pre/perinatal) and late (usually adolescent) developmental brain
 abnormalities. With the use of brain mapping algorithms, we detected
 striking anatomical profiles of accelerated gray matter loss in very
 early-onset schizophrenia; surprisingly, deficits moved in a dynamic
 pattern, enveloping increasing amounts of cortex throughout
 adolescence. Early-onset patients were rescanned prospectively with
 MRI, at 2-year intervals at three time points, to uncover the dynamics
 and timing of disease progression during adolescence. The earliest
 deficits were found in parietal brain regions, supporting visuospatial
 and associative thinking, where adult deficits are known to be mediated
 by environmental (nongenetic) factors. Over 5 years, these deficits
 progressed anteriorly into temporal lobes, engulfing sensorimotor and
 dorsolateral prefrontal cortices, and frontal eye fields. These
 emerging patterns correlated with psychotic symptom severity and
 mirrored the neuromotor, auditory, visual search, and frontal executive
 impairments in the disease. In temporal regions, gray matter loss was
 completely absent early in the disease but became pervasive later. Only
 the latest changes included dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and superior
 temporal gyri, deficit regions found consistently in adult studies.
 These emerging dynamic patterns were (i) controlled for
 medication and IQ effects, (ii) replicated in
 independent groups of males and females, and (iii)
 charted in individuals and groups. The resulting mapping strategy
 reveals a shifting pattern of tissue loss in schizophrenia. Aspects of
 the anatomy and dynamics of disease are uncovered, in a changing
 profile that implicates genetic and nongenetic patterns of deficits.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We used whole brain functional MRI to investigate the neural
 network specifically engaged in the recognition of “biological
 motion” defined by point-lights attached to the major joints and
 head of a human walker. To examine the specificity of brain regions
 responsive to biological motion, brain activations obtained during a
 “walker vs. non-walker” discrimination task were compared with
 those elicited by two other tasks: (i) non-rigid motion
 (NRM), involving the discrimination of overall motion direction in the
 same “point-lights” display, and (ii) face-gender
 discrimination, involving the discrimination of gender in briefly
 presented photographs of men and women. Brain activity specific to
 “biological motion” recognition arose in the lateral cerebellum
 and in a region in the lateral occipital cortex presumably
 corresponding to the area KO previously shown to be particularly
 sensitive to kinetic contours. Additional areas significantly activated
 during the biological motion recognition task involved both, dorsal and
 ventral extrastriate cortical regions. In the ventral regions both
 face-gender discrimination and biological motion recognition elicited
 activation in the lingual and fusiform gyri and in the Brodmann areas
 22 and 38 in superior temporal sulcus (STS). Along the dorsal pathway,
 both biological motion recognition and non-rigid direction
 discrimination gave rise to strong responses in several known motion
 sensitive areas. These included Brodmann areas 19/37, the inferior
 (Brodmann Area 39), and superior parietal lobule (Brodmann Area 7).
 Thus, we conjecture that, whereas face (and form) stimuli activate
 primarily the ventral system and motion stimuli primarily the dorsal
 system, recognition of biological motion stimuli may activate both
 systems as well as their confluence in STS. This hypothesis is
 consistent with our findings in stroke patients, with unilateral brain
 lesions involving at least one of these areas, who, although correctly
 reporting the direction of the point-light walker, fail on the
 biological motion task.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A comparison was made of the speed of visual recovery in the
 deprived eye of kittens after a 6-day period of monocular deprivation
 imposed at 5–9 weeks of age in two postdeprivation conditions. In one
 condition, binocular recovery (BR), both eyes were open, whereas in the
 other condition, reverse lid-suture (RLS), the formerly nondeprived eye
 was closed to force the animal to use the originally deprived eye. In
 littermate pairs, BR kittens began to recover form vision 12 to 30
 h before those subjected to RLS. The vision of the deprived eye of the
 BR animals remained superior to that of their RLS littermates for 4–8
 days. Although this finding is difficult to reconcile with competitive
 mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, it supports a prediction of an
 alternative model of synaptic plasticity [Bienenstock, E. L.,
 Cooper, L. N. & Munro, P. W. (1982) J.
 Neurosci. 2, 32–48] for slower initial recovery with RLS
 because of the time required to reset the modification threshold.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The view that memory is encoded by variations in the strength of
 synapses implies that long-term biochemical changes take place within
 subcellular microdomains of neurons. These changes are thought
 ultimately to be an effect of transcriptional regulation of specific
 genes. Localized changes, however, cannot be fully explained by a
 purely transcriptional control of gene expression. The neuron-specific
 ELAV-like HuB, HuC, and HuD RNA-binding proteins act
 posttranscriptionally by binding to adenine- and uridine-rich elements
 (AREs) in the 3′ untranslated region of a set of target mRNAs, and by
 increasing mRNA cytoplasmic stability and/or rate of
 translation. Here we show that neuronal ELAV-like genes undergo a
 sustained up-regulation in hippocampal pyramidal cells only of mice and
 rats that have learned a spatial discrimination paradigm. This
 learning-specific increase of ELAV-like proteins was localized within
 cytoplasmic compartments of the somata and proximal dendrites and was
 associated with the cytoskeleton. This increase was also accompanied by
 enhanced expression of the GAP-43 gene, known to be regulated mainly
 posttranscriptionally and whose mRNA is demonstrated here to be an
 in vivo ELAV-like target. Antisense-mediated knockdown
 of HuC impaired spatial learning performance in mice and induced a
 concomitant down-regulation of GAP-43 expression. Neuronal ELAV-like
 proteins could exert learning-induced posttranscriptional control of an
 array of target genes uniquely suited to subserve substrates of memory
 storage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Infusion of prostaglandin (PG) D2 into the lateral
 ventricle of the brain induced an increase in the amount of non-rapid
 eye movement sleep in wild-type (WT) mice but not in mice deficient in
 the PGD receptor (DP). Immunofluorescence staining of WT mouse brain
 revealed that DP immunoreactivity was dominantly localized in the
 leptomeninges (LM) of the basal forebrain but that PGD synthase
 immunoreactivity was widely distributed in the LM of the entire brain.
 Electron microscopic observation indicated that DP-immunoreactive
 particles were predominantly located on the plasma membranes of
 arachnoid trabecular cells of the LM. The region with the highest DP
 immunoreactivity was clearly defined as bilateral wings in the LM of
 the basal forebrain located lateral to the optic chiasm in the
 proximity of the ventrolateral preoptic area, one of the putative sleep
 centers, and the tuberomammillary nucleus, one of the putative wake
 centers. The LM of this region contained DP mRNA 70-fold higher than
 that in the cortex as judged from the results of quantitative reverse
 transcription–PCR. PGD2 infusion into the subarachnoid
 space of this region increased the extracellular adenosine level more
 than 2-fold in WT mice but not in the DP-deficient mice. These results
 indicate that DPs in the arachnoid trabecular cells of the basal
 forebrain mediate an increase in the extracellular adenosine level and
 sleep induction by PGD2.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Synaptotagmin I is a synaptic vesicle-associated protein essential
 for synchronous neurotransmission. We investigated its impact on the
 intracellular Ca2+-dependence of large dense-core vesicle
 (LDCV) exocytosis by combining Ca2+-uncaging and membrane
 capacitance measurements in adrenal slices from mouse synaptotagmin I
 null mutants. Synaptotagmin I-deficient chromaffin cells displayed
 prolonged exocytic delays and slow, yet Ca2+-dependent
 fusion rates, resulting in strongly reduced LDCV release in response to
 short depolarizations. Vesicle recruitment, the shape of individual
 amperometric events, and endocytosis appeared unaffected. These
 findings demonstrate that synaptotagmin I is required for rapid, highly
 Ca2+-sensitive LDCV exocytosis and indicate that it
 regulates the equilibrium between a slowly releasable and a readily
 releasable state of the fusion machinery. Alternatively, synaptotagmin
 I could function as calcium sensor for the readily releasable pool,
 leading to the destabilization of the pool in its absence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The secondary structure of a 55-residue fragment of the mouse prion
 protein, MoPrP(89–143), was studied in randomly aggregated (dried from
 water) and fibrillar (precipitated from water/acetonitrile) forms by
 13C solid-state NMR. Recent studies have shown that the
 fibrillar form of the P101L mutant of MoPrP(89–143) is capable of
 inducing prion disease in transgenic mice, whereas unaggregated or
 randomly aggregated samples do not provoke disease. Through analysis of
 13C chemical shifts, we have determined that both wild-type
 and mutant sequence MoPrP(89–143) form a mixture of β-sheet and
 α-helical conformations in the randomly aggregated state although the
 β-sheet content in MoPrP(89–143, P101L) is significantly higher
 than in the wild-type peptide. In a fibrillar state, MoPrP(89–143,
 P101L) is completely converted into β-sheet, suggesting that the
 formation of a specific β-sheet structure may be required for the
 peptide to induce disease. Studies of an analogous peptide from Syrian
 hamster PrP verify that sequence alterations in residues 101–117
 affect the conformation of aggregated forms of the peptides.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Understanding the molecular basis of addiction could be greatly
 aided by using forward genetic manipulation to lengthen the list of
 candidate genes involved in this complex process. Here, we report that
 zebrafish exhibit cocaine-induced conditioned place preference. In a
 pilot screen of 18 F2 generation families of mutagenized
 fish, we found three with abnormally low responses to cocaine. This
 behavior was inherited by the F3 generation in a manner
 that suggests the abnormalities were because of dominant mutations in
 single genes. Performance profiles in secondary behavioral screens
 measuring visual dark-adaptation and learning suggest that the defects
 were the result of mutations in distinct genes that affect dopaminergic
 signaling in the retina and brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Knowledge of the electrical conductivity properties of excitable
 tissues is essential for relating the electromagnetic fields generated
 by the tissue to the underlying electrophysiological currents. Efforts
 to characterize these endogenous currents from measurements
 of the associated electromagnetic fields would significantly benefit
 from the ability to measure the electrical conductivity properties of
 the tissue noninvasively. Here, using an effective medium approach, we
 show how the electrical conductivity tensor of tissue can be
 quantitatively inferred from the water self-diffusion tensor as
 measured by diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging. The effective
 medium model indicates a strong linear relationship between the
 conductivity and diffusion tensor eigenvalues (respectively, σ and
 d) in agreement with theoretical bounds and experimental
 measurements presented here (σ/d ≈ 0.844 ±
 0.0545 S⋅s/mm3, r2 =
 0.945). The extension to other biological transport phenomena is also
 discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In an attempt to increase information about how mammalian visual
 systems create a perceptual experience out of a retinal photochemical
 bleach pattern, this article brings together recent rat physiological
 data acquired with large electrodes, an old cat behavioral experiment,
 and two complex human behaviors: reading and the reversible blindness
 people experience when the scene being viewed is stabilized on the
 retinal surface. The outcome suggests this juxtaposition of disparate
 data sets has been logical, reasonable, and informative. The link
 between rats and reading is the fact that both rat and human retinas
 convert bleach patterns into ganglion cell volleys 3 times a second.
 The probable trigger for these episodic retinal volleys is a more or
 less abrupt change in the pattern of bleached rods and cones, and we
 claim the absence of this trigger when the image is stabilized is
 responsible for the blindness. The cat behavioral experiment correlates
 performance on visual discrimination tasks with the number of nerve
 fibers remaining after lesions of the optic tract. The analysis of the
 result, which shows that as few as 2% of the normal number of nerve
 fibers supports perfect performance of such tasks, prompts the concept
 of a second dynamic visual system, operating in parallel with the
 anatomical nervous system pictured in the textbooks. The dynamic visual
 system model, which brings into the foreground important old facts that
 have been neglected and integrates them with new data, offers a
 synthesis that may be useful in interpreting classical visual
 behavioral phenomena.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To investigate the role of retinal-based pigments (opsins) in
 circadian photoreception in mice, animals mutated in plasma retinol
 binding protein were placed on a vitamin A-free diet and tested for
 photic induction of gene expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
 After 10 months on the vitamin A-free diet, the majority of mice
 contained no detectable retinal in their eyes. These mice demonstrated
 fully intact photic signaling to the suprachiasmatic nucleus as
 measured by acute mPer mRNA induction in the
 suprachiasmatic nucleus in response to bright or dim light. The data
 suggest that a non-opsin pigment is the primary circadian photoreceptor
 in the mouse.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite its long history, the central effects of progressive
 depletion of vitamin A in adult mice has not been previously described.
 An examination of vitamin-deprived animals revealed a progressive and
 ultimately profound impairment of hippocampal CA1 long-term
 potentiation and a virtual abolishment of long-term depression.
 Importantly, these losses are fully reversible by dietary vitamin A
 replenishment in vivo or direct application of all
 trans-retinoic acid to acute hippocampal slices. We find
 retinoid responsive transgenes to be highly active in the hippocampus,
 and by using dissected explants, we show the hippocampus to be a site
 of robust synthesis of bioactive retinoids. In aggregate, these results
 demonstrate that vitamin A and its active derivatives function as
 essential competence factors for long-term synaptic plasticity within
 the adult brain, and suggest that key genes required for long-term
 potentiation and long-term depression are retinoid dependent. These
 data suggest a major mental consequence for the hundreds of millions of
 adults and children who are vitamin A deficient.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuronal injury in ischemic stroke is partly mediated by cytotoxic
 reactive oxygen species. Although the antioxidant ascorbic acid (AA) or
 vitamin C does not penetrate the blood–brain barrier (BBB),
 its oxidized form, dehydroascorbic acid (DHA), enters the brain by
 means of facilitative transport. We hypothesized that i.v. DHA would
 improve outcome after stroke because of its ability to cross the BBB
 and augment brain antioxidant levels. Reversible or permanent focal
 cerebral ischemia was created by intraluminal middle cerebral artery
 occlusion in mice treated with vehicle, AA, or DHA (40, 250, or 500
 mg/kg), either before or after ischemia. Given before ischemia, DHA
 caused dose-dependent increases in postreperfusion cerebral blood flow,
 with reductions in neurological deficit and mortality. In reperfused
 cerebral ischemia, mean infarct volume was reduced from 53% and 59%
 in vehicle- and AA-treated animals, respectively, to 15% in 250
 mg/kg DHA-treated animals (P < 0.05). Similar
 significant reductions occurred in nonreperfused cerebral ischemia.
 Delayed postischemic DHA administration after 15 min or 3 h also
 mediated improved outcomes. DHA (250 mg/kg or 500 mg/kg)
 administered at 3 h postischemia reduced infarct volume by 6- to
 9-fold, to only 5% with the highest DHA dose (P <
 0.05). In contrast, AA had no effect on infarct volumes, mortality, or
 neurological deficits. No differences in the incidence of intracerebral
 hemorrhage occurred. Unlike exogenous AA, DHA confers in
 vivo, dose-dependent neuroprotection in reperfused and
 nonreperfused cerebral ischemia at clinically relevant times. As a
 naturally occurring interconvertible form of AA with BBB permeability,
 DHA represents a promising pharmacological therapy for stroke based on
 its effects in this model of cerebral ischemia.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The interaction of PDZ domain-containing proteins with the C
 termini of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazolepropionate (AMPA)
 receptors has been suggested to be important in the regulation of
 receptor targeting to excitatory synapses. Recent studies have shown
 that the rapid internalization of AMPA receptors at synapses may
 mediate, at least in part, the expression of long-term depression
 (LTD). We have previously shown that phosphorylation of Ser-880 on the
 AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit differentially regulated the interaction of
 GluR2 with the PDZ domain-containing proteins GRIP1 and PICK1. Here, we
 show that induction of LTD in hippocampal slices increases
 phosphorylation of Ser-880 within the GluR2 C-terminal PDZ ligand,
 suggesting that the modulation of GluR2 interaction with GRIP1 and
 PICK1 may regulate AMPA receptor internalization during LTD. Moreover,
 postsynaptic intracellular perfusion of GluR2 C-terminal peptides that
 disrupt GluR2 interaction with PICK1 inhibit the expression of
 hippocampal LTD. These results suggest that the interaction of GluR2
 with PICK1 may play a regulatory role in the expression of LTD in
 the hippocampus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite the biological importance of UV vision, its molecular bases
 are not well understood. Here, we present evidence that UV vision in
 vertebrates is determined by eight specific amino acids in the UV
 pigments. Amino acid sequence analyses show that contemporary UV
 pigments inherited their UV sensitivities from the vertebrate ancestor
 by retaining most of these eight amino acids. In the avian lineage, the
 ancestral pigment lost UV sensitivity, but some descendants regained it
 by one amino acid change. Our results also strongly support the
 hypothesis that UV pigments have an unprotonated Schiff base-linked
 chromophore.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microtubule dynamics are crucial for mitotic spindle assembly and
 chromosome movement. Suppression of dynamics by Taxol appears
 responsible for the drug's potent ability to inhibit mitosis and cell
 proliferation. Although Taxol is an important chemotherapeutic agent,
 development of resistance limits its efficacy. To examine the role of
 microtubule dynamics in Taxol resistance, we measured the dynamic
 instability of individual rhodamine-labeled microtubules in
 Taxol-sensitive and -resistant living human cancer cells.
 Taxol-resistant A549-T12 and -T24 cell lines were selected from a human
 lung carcinoma cell line, A549. They are, respectively, 9- and 17-fold
 resistant to Taxol and require low concentrations of Taxol for
 proliferation. We found that microtubule dynamic instability was
 significantly increased in the Taxol-resistant cells. For example, with
 A549-T12 cells in the absence of added Taxol, microtubule dynamicity
 increased 57% as compared with A549 cells. The length and rate of
 shortening excursions increased 75 and 59%, respectively. These
 parameters were further increased in A549-T24 cells, with overall
 dynamicity increasing by 167% compared with parental cells. Thus, the
 decreased Taxol-sensitivity of these cells can be explained by their
 increased microtubule dynamics. When grown without Taxol, A549-T12
 cells were blocked at the metaphase/anaphase transition and displayed
 abnormal mitotic spindles with uncongressed chromosomes. In the
 presence of 2–12 nM Taxol, the cells grew normally, suggesting that
 mitotic block resulted from excessive microtubule dynamics. These
 results indicate that microtubule dynamics play an important role in
 Taxol resistance, and that both excessively rapid dynamics and
 suppressed dynamics impair mitotic spindle function and inhibit
 proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Epothilones are a new class of natural and potent antineoplastic
 agents that stabilize microtubules. Although 12,13-epoxide derivatives
 are potent antiproliferative agents, the activities of the
 corresponding 12,13-olefin analogs are significantly decreased. These
 data were confirmed for two new analogs, 6-propyl-EpoB (pEB) and
 6-propyl-EpoD (pED), in comparison with the natural compounds
 EpoB/EpoD, by using human A431, MCF7, and MDR1-overexpressing
 NCI/Adr cells. By using tritiated pEB/pED, compound uptake,
 release, and nuclear accumulation were investigated in A431 and
 NCI/Adr cells. In these cells, epothilones can principally be
 recognized and exported by Verapamil-sensitive efflux pumps, which are
 not identical to MDR1. The degree of export depends on the structure,
 olefin vs. epoxide-analog, and also on the intracellular drug
 concentration. The accumulation of pED used at 3.5 or 70 nM,
 respectively, was increased in the presence of 10 μM Verapamil in
 both cell lines 2- to 8-fold. In contrast, the intracellular levels of
 pEB were affected by Verapamil only at 3.5 nM pEB in NCI/Adr (2-fold)
 and not in A431 cells. In addition, strong nuclear accumulation was
 observed for pEB (40–50%) but not paclitaxel or pED (5–15%) in both
 cell lines. Our study suggests that differences in growth inhibitory
 efficacy between epoxide and olefin analogs may be based on different
 mechanisms of drug accumulation and subcellular distribution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Changes in extracellular zinc concentration participate in
 modulating fundamental cellular processes such as proliferation,
 secretion, and ion transport in a mechanism that is not well
 understood. Here, we show that a micromolar concentration of
 extracellular zinc triggers a massive release of calcium from
 thapsigargin-sensitive intracellular pools in the colonocytic cell line
 HT29. Calcium release was blocked by a phospholipase-C inhibitor,
 indicating that formation of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate is required
 for zinc-dependent calcium release. Zinc influx was not observed,
 indicating that extracellular zinc triggered the release. The
 Cai2+ release was zinc specific and could not
 be triggered by other heavy metals. Furthermore, zinc failed to
 activate the Ca2+-sensing receptor heterologously expressed
 in HEK293 cells. The zinc-induced Cai2+ rise
 stimulated the activity of the Na+/H+
 exchanger in HT29 cells. Our results indicate that a previously
 uncharacterized extracellular, G protein-coupled,
 Zn2+-sensing receptor is functional in colonocytes. Because
 Cai2+ rise is known to regulate key cellular
 and signal-transduction processes, the zinc-sensing receptor may
 provide the missing link between extracellular zinc concentration
 changes and the regulation of cellular processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is well established that pregnancy early in life reduces the
 risk of breast cancer in women and that this effect is universal. This
 phenomenon of parity protection against mammary cancer is also observed
 in rodents. Earlier studies have demonstrated that short-term
 administration of estradiol (E) in combination with progesterone mimics
 the protective effect of parity in rats. In this study, the lowest
 effective E dosage for preventing mammary cancer was determined. Rats
 were injected with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea
 at 7 weeks of age; 2 weeks later, the rats were subjected to sustained
 treatment with 20 μg, 100 μg, 200 μg, or 30 mg of E in silastic
 capsules for 3 weeks. Treatments with 100 μg, 200 μg, and 30 mg of
 E resulted in serum levels of E equivalent to those of pregnancy and
 were highly effective in preventing mammary cancer. E treatment (20
 μg) did not result in pregnancy levels of E and was not effective in
 reducing the mammary cancer incidence. In another set of experiments,
 we determined the effect of different durations of E with or without
 progesterone treatments on mammary carcinogenesis. These experiments
 indicate that a period as short as one-third the period of gestation is
 sufficient to induce protection against mammary carcinogenesis. The
 pioneering aspect of our study in contrast to long-term estrogen
 exposure, which is thought to increase the risk of breast cancer, is
 that short-term sustained treatments with pregnancy levels of E can
 induce protection against frank mammary cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP) are involved in
 a diverse array of physiologic functions including protection of tissue
 against ischemic insult, regulation of vascular tone, and modulation of
 insulin secretion. To improve our understanding of the role of
 KATP in these processes, we used a gene-targeting strategy
 to generate mice with a disruption in the muscle-specific
 KATP regulatory subunit, SUR2. Insertional mutagenesis of
 the Sur2 locus generated homozygous null
 (Sur2−/−) mice and heterozygote
 (Sur2+/−) mice that are viable and
 phenotypically similar to their wild-type littermates to 6 weeks of age
 despite, respectively, half or no SUR2 mRNA expression or channel
 activity in skeletal muscle or heart.
 Sur2−/− animals had lower fasting and fed
 serum glucose, exhibited improved glucose tolerance during a glucose
 tolerance test, and demonstrated a more rapid and severe hypoglycemia
 after administration of insulin. Enhanced glucose use was also observed
 during in vivo hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp studies
 during which Sur2−/− mice required a
 greater glucose infusion rate to maintain a target blood glucose level.
 Enhanced insulin action was intrinsic to the skeletal muscle, as
 in vitro insulin-stimulated glucose transport was
 1.5-fold greater in Sur2−/− muscle than in
 wild type. Thus, membrane excitability and KATP activity,
 to our knowledge, seem to be new components of the insulin-stimulated
 glucose uptake mechanism, suggesting possible future therapeutic
 approaches for individuals suffering from diabetes mellitus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this study, semiquantitative reverse transcription–PCR analysis
 showed that estrogen receptor α (ERα) and β (ERβ) mRNAs are
 developmentally regulated in the rat heart. We found that ERα mRNA
 was low in all heart chambers of 4-day-old rats, but was elevated in
 the atria (6- to 18-fold) and ventricles (3- to 4-fold) of adult rats.
 Western blotting analysis confirmed that these differences were
 efficiently translated into 67-kDa ERα protein. ERβ mRNA was
 expressed at its highest level in the left atrium and was 3- to 4-fold
 lower in other heart chambers of 4-day-old animals. In adult rats ERβ
 was decreased dramatically in the left atrium (20-fold) and, to a
 lesser extent in the other heart chambers (2- to 4-fold). Significant
 ER changes occurred already in the first week after birth. Accordingly,
 estrogen regulation in cells from neonatal hearts, as reported in
 several studies, may not correspond to that occurring in fully
 differentiated adult hearts, because of an altered degree of ER
 expression. In adult rats, ovariectomy decreases atrial ERα, the
 atria/body weight ratio, and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP)
 transcription. Treatment of ovariectomized rats with 17-β-estradiol
 (25 μg, 10 days, s.c.) reversed these changes. In addition, there was
 no effect of ovariectomy and 17-β-estradiol supplementation on
 systolic blood pressure, but in ovariectomized rats a decreased heart
 rate followed 17-β-estradiol administration. Similar to the effects
 on ERα in the atria, ovariectomy lowered plasma ANP levels, and
 17-β-estradiol administration restored ANP in the plasma of
 ovariectomized rats. Changes in plasma ANP correlated with changes in
 ANP content in the right atrium, as demonstrated by RIA. Increased ANP
 expression and secretion in response to ERα activation may be a
 protective mechanism in the heart.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nitric oxide (NO) activates soluble guanylyl cyclase in smooth
 muscle cells to induce vasodilation in the vasculature. However, as
 hemoglobin (Hb) is an effective scavenger of NO and is present in high
 concentrations inside the red blood cell (RBC), the bioavailability of
 NO would be too low to elicit soluble guanylyl cyclase activation in
 the presence of blood. Therefore, NO bioactivity must be preserved.
 Here we present evidence suggesting that the RBC participates in the
 preservation of NO bioactivity by reducing NO influx. The NO uptake by
 RBCs was increased and decreased by altering the degree of band 3
 binding to the cytoskeleton. Methemoglobin and denatured hemoglobin
 binding to the RBC membrane or cytoskeleton also were shown to
 contribute to reducing the NO uptake rate of the RBC. These alterations
 in NO uptake by the RBC, hence the NO bioavailability, were determined
 to correlate with the vasodilation of isolated blood vessels. Our
 observations suggest that RBC membrane and cytoskeleton associated
 NO-inert proteins provide a barrier for NO diffusion and thus account
 for the reduction in the NO uptake rate of RBCs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian Trp proteins are candidates for plasma membrane calcium
 channels regulated by receptor activation or by intracellular calcium
 store depletion [capacitative calcium entry (CCE)]. One extensively
 investigated member of the Trp family, the human Trp3 (hTrp3), behaves
 as a receptor-activated, calcium-permeable, nonselective cation channel
 when expressed in cell lines and does not appear to be activated by
 store depletion. Nonetheless, there is good evidence that Trp3 can be
 regulated by interacting with inositol trisphosphate receptors
 (IP3Rs), reminiscent of the conformational coupling mode of
 CCE. To investigate the role of Trp3 in CCE, and its regulation by
 IP3R, we transiently expressed hTrp3 in the wild-type DT40
 chicken B lymphocyte cell line and its variant lacking
 IP3R. Expression of hTrp3 in either wild-type or
 IP3R-knockout cells did not increase basal membrane
 permeability, but resulted in a substantially greater divalent cation
 entry after thapsigargin-induced store depletion. This hTrp3-dependent
 divalent cation entry was significantly greater in the wild type than
 in IP3R-knockout cells. Thus, it appears that in this cell
 line, hTrp3 forms channels that are store-operated by both
 IP3R-dependent and IP3R-independent mechanisms.
 Trp3, or one of its structural relatives, is a candidate for the
 store-operated, nonselective cation channels observed in smooth muscle
 cells and other cell types.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Because high concentrations of ascorbic acid (AA) are found
 in the adenohypophysis, we hypothesized that it might have an acute
 effect on the secretion of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and
 luteinizing hormone (LH) from the gland, particularly because we have
 reported that AA rapidly inhibits stimulated LH-releasing hormone
 (LHRH) release from medial basal hypothalamic explants. Incubation of
 anterior pituitary halves from adult male rats with graded
 concentrations of AA for 1 h induced highly significant release of
 both FSH and LH with a minimal effective concentration of
 10−5 M. Release remained on a plateau from
 10−5 to 10−2 M. When both AA and an effective
 concentration of LHRH were incubated together, there was no additive
 response to LHRH and the response was the same as to either compound
 alone. The FSH and LH release in response to AA was blocked by
 incubation with
 NG-monomethyl-l-arginine (NMMA)
 (300 μM), a competitive inhibitor of NO synthase. NMMA also inhibited
 LHRH-induced LH and FSH release and gonadotropin release in the
 presence of both LHRH and AA, whereas sodium nitroprusside, a releaser
 of NO, stimulated LH and FSH release. Membrane depolarization caused by
 incubation in high potassium (K+ = 28 or 56 mM) medium
 stimulated release of FSH, LH, and AA that was blocked by NMMA. We
 hypothesize that AA is released with FSH and LH from secretory
 granules. AA is transported back into gonadotropes by the AA
 transporter and increases intracellular [Ca2+]-activating
 NO synthase that evokes exocytosis of gonadotropins and AA by cGMP .
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyanobacteria possess a CO2-concentating mechanism that
 involves active CO2 uptake and HCO
 transport. For CO2 uptake, we have identified two systems
 in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803,
 one induced at low CO2 and one constitutive. The low
 CO2-induced system showed higher maximal activity and
 higher affinity for CO2 than the constitutive system. On
 the basis of speculation that separate NAD(P)H dehydrogenase complexes
 were essential for each of these systems, we reasoned that inactivation
 of one system would allow selection of mutants defective in the other.
 Thus, mutants unable to grow at pH 7.0 in air were recovered after
 transformation of a ΔndhD3 mutant with a
 transposon-bearing library. Four of them had tags within
 slr1302 (designated cupB), a homologue of
 sll1734 (cupA), which is cotranscribed
 with ndhF3 and ndhD3. The
 ΔcupB, ΔndhD4, and
 ΔndhF4 mutants showed CO2-uptake
 characteristics of the low CO2induced system observed
 in wild type. In contrast, mutants ΔcupA,
 ΔndhD3, and ΔndhF3 showed
 characteristics of the constitutive CO2-uptake system.
 Double mutants impaired in one component of each of the systems were
 unable to take up CO2 and required high CO2 for
 growth. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the
 ndhD3/ndhD4-,
 ndhF3/ndhF4-, and
 cupA/cupB-type genes are present only
 in cyanobacteria. Most of the cyanobacterial strains studied possess
 the ndhD3/ndhD4-,
 ndhF3/ndhF4-, and
 cupA/cupB-type genes in pairs. Thus,
 the two types of NAD(P)H dehydrogenase complexes essential for low
 CO2-induced and constitutive CO2-uptake systems
 associated with the NdhD3/NdhF3/CupA-homologues and
 NdhD4/NdhF4/CupB-homologues, respectively, appear to be present in
 these cyanobacterial strains but not in other organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Aux/IAA gene family members were
 first identified by their rapid transcriptional increase in response to
 auxin. Auxin/indole-3-acetic acid protein (Aux/IAA) luciferase
 (LUC) fusions expressed in Arabidopsis under control of
 a non-auxin-responsive promoter were used to monitor the effect of
 auxin on protein abundance independent of transcriptional regulation by
 auxin. After 2 hr in the presence of 1 μM exogenous
 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4D), a synthetic auxin, the levels of pea
 IAA6 (PSIAA6) and Arabidopsis IAA1 LUC activity were
 35% and 67%, respectively, of mock-treated genetically identical
 seedlings, whereas the activity of LUC alone from equivalently treated
 seedlings remained unaltered. The steady-state level of an Aux/IAA
 fusion protein lacking domain II, one of the conserved domains found in
 all Aux/IAA proteins, was not reduced in the presence of auxin.
 Higher levels of exogenous auxin were required to affect the
 steady-state level of the PSIAA6∷LUC fusion with a point mutation
 in domain II. A 13-aa consensus sequence from domain II fused to LUC
 created an auxin-responsive fusion protein. The change in steady-state
 levels in response to auxin is extremely rapid, with a decrease in LUC
 activity detectable by 2 min after auxin application. Direct half-life
 measurements show that the decrease caused by exogenous auxin is due to
 the decrease in fusion protein half-life. These results suggest that
 auxin rapidly modulates the degradation rate of Aux/IAA proteins,
 with higher levels of auxin increasing the proteolytic rate of
 Aux/IAA family members.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The complex dynamic properties of biological timing in organisms
 remain a central enigma in biology despite the increasingly precise
 genetic characterization of oscillating units and their components.
 Although attempts to obtain the time constants from oscillations of
 gene activity and biochemical units have led to substantial progress,
 we are still far from a full molecular understanding of
 endogenous rhythmicity and the physiological manifestations
 of biological clocks. Applications of nonlinear dynamics have
 revolutionized thinking in physics and in biomedical and life sciences
 research, and spatiotemporal considerations are now advancing our
 understanding of development and rhythmicity. Here we show that the
 well known circadian rhythm of a metabolic cycle in a higher plant,
 namely the crassulacean acid metabolism mode of photosynthesis, is
 expressed as dynamic patterns of independently initiated variations in
 photosynthetic efficiency (φPSII) over a single leaf.
 Noninvasive highly sensitive chlorophyll fluorescence imaging reveals
 randomly initiated patches of varying φPSII that are
 propagated within minutes to hours in wave fronts, forming dynamically
 expanding and contracting clusters and clearly dephased regions of
 φPSII. Thus, this biological clock is a spatiotemporal
 product of many weakly coupled individual oscillators, defined by the
 metabolic constraints of crassulacean acid metabolism. The oscillators
 operate independently in space and time as a consequence of the
 dynamics of metabolic pools and limitations of CO2
 diffusion between tightly packed cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Arabidopsis LEAFY COTYLEDON2
 (LEC2) gene is a central embryonic regulator that serves
 critical roles both early and late during embryo development.
 LEC2 is required for the maintenance of suspensor
 morphology, specification of cotyledon identity, progression through
 the maturation phase, and suppression of premature germination. We
 cloned the LEC2 gene on the basis of its chromosomal
 position and showed that the predicted polypeptide contains a B3
 domain, a DNA-binding motif unique to plants that is characteristic of
 several transcription factors. We showed that LEC2 RNA
 accumulates primarily during seed development, consistent with our
 finding that LEC2 shares greatest similarity with the B3 domain
 transcription factors that act primarily in developing seeds,
 VIVIPAROUS1/ABA INSENSITIVE3 and FUSCA3. Ectopic, postembryonic
 expression of LEC2 in transgenic plants induces the
 formation of somatic embryos and other organ-like structures and often
 confers embryonic characteristics to seedlings. Together, these results
 suggest that LEC2 is a transcriptional regulator that establishes a
 cellular environment sufficient to initiate embryo development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expansins are a family of extracellular proteins proposed to play a
 key role in wall stress relaxation and, thus, in cell and tissue
 growth. To test the possible function of expansins in morphogenesis, we
 have developed a technique that allows transient local microinduction
 of gene expression in transgenic plants. We have used this system to
 manipulate expansin gene expression in various tissues. Our results
 indicate that local expansin expression within the meristem induces a
 developmental program that recapitulates the entire process of leaf
 formation. Moreover, local transient induction of expansin expression
 on the flank of developing primordia leads to the induction of ectopic
 lamina tissue and thus modulation of leaf shape. These data describe an
 approach for the local manipulation of gene expression and indicate a
 role for expansin in the control of both leaf initiation and shape.
 These results are consistent with the action of cell
 division-independent mechanisms in plant morphogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We used positron emission tomography to study neural mechanisms
 underlying intensely pleasant emotional responses to music.
 Cerebral blood flow changes were measured in response to
 subject-selected music that elicited the highly pleasurable
 experience of “shivers-down-the-spine” or “chills.”
 Subjective reports of chills were accompanied by changes in heart rate,
 electromyogram, and respiration. As intensity of these chills
 increased, cerebral blood flow increases and decreases were observed in
 brain regions thought to be involved in reward/motivation, emotion,
 and arousal, including ventral striatum, midbrain, amygdala,
 orbitofrontal cortex, and ventral medial prefrontal cortex. These brain
 structures are known to be active in response to other
 euphoria-inducing stimuli, such as food, sex, and drugs of abuse. This
 finding links music with biologically relevant, survival-related
 stimuli via their common recruitment of brain circuitry involved in
 pleasure and reward.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The relationship between stressful life events and the onset of
 disease is well documented. However, the role of psychological stress
 as a risk factor for life-threatening cerebrovascular insults such as
 stroke remains unspecified, but could explain individual variation in
 stroke outcome. To discover the mechanisms through which psychological
 stress may alter stroke outcome, we modeled the effects of chronic
 social intimidation and stress on ischemia-induced bcl-2
 expression and early neuronal cell loss resulting from cerebral artery
 occlusion in mice (C57BL/6). The bcl-2 protooncogene
 promotes cell survival and protects against apoptosis and
 cellular necrosis in numerous neurodegenerative disorders, including
 stroke. In our study, male mice were chronically exposed to aggressive
 social stimuli before induction of a controlled, mild ischemic insult.
 Stressed mice expressed ≈70% less bcl-2 mRNA than
 unstressed mice after ischemia. In addition, social stress greatly
 exacerbated infarct in wild-type mice but not in transgenic mice that
 constitutively express increased neuronal bcl-2. Despite
 similar postischemic concentrations of corticosterone, the major stress
 hormone in mice, high corticosterone concentrations were significantly
 correlated with larger infarcts in wild-type mice but not
 bcl-2 transgenic mice. Thus, enhanced
 bcl-2 expression offsets the potentially deleterious
 consequences of high postischemic plasma corticosterone concentrations.
 Taken together, these data demonstrate that stressful prestroke social
 milieu strongly compromises an endogenous molecular
 mechanism of neuroprotection in injured brain and offer a new
 behavioral target for stroke therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Persistent or chronic pain is the primary reason people seek medical care, yet current therapies are either inadequate for certain types of pain or cause intolerable side effects. Recently, pain neurobiologists have identified a number of cellular and molecular processes that lead to the initiation and maintenance of pain. Understanding these underlying mechanisms has given significant promise for the development of more effective, more specific pain therapies in the near future.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Quantum computing is a quickly growing research field. This article introduces the basic concepts of quantum computing, recent developments in quantum searching, and decoherence in a possible quantum dot realization.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Supramolecular chemistry deals with the chemistry and collective behavior of organized ensembles of molecules. In this so-called mesoscale regime, molecular building blocks are organized into longer-range order and higher-order functional structures via comparatively weak forces. As one of the modern frontiers in chemistry, supramolecular chemistry heralds many promises that range from biocompatible materials and biomimetic catalysts to sensors and nanoscale fabrication of electronic devices.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ultrafine particles (smaller than about 0.1 μm) are often emitted from combustion and other high-temperature processes in the form of fractal-like aggregates composed of solid nanoparticles. Results of a study of atmospheric aggregates are reported. Particles were collected on transmission electron microscope grids fitted on the last two stages of a single-jet eight-stage low-pressure impactor for periods of a few minutes. Photomicrographs of transmission electron microscope grids from the impactor stages were analyzed to obtain the fractal dimension (Df) and prefactor (A) for aggregates. Df increased from near 1 to above 2 as the number of primary particles making up the aggregates increased from 10 to 180. Total particle concentrations in size ranges roughly equivalent to the low-pressure impactor stages were measured with a mobility analyzer and condensation particle counter. In one set of measurements, the fraction of the particles present as aggregates was about 60% for particles with aerodynamic diameters between 50 and 75 nm and 34% for the range 75 to 120 nm. The total aggregate concentration in the 50- to 120-nm size range was about 400 ml−1. The primary particles that make up atmospheric aggregates are more polydisperse than soot aggregates generated from a single laboratory source, an ethane/oxygen flame. Most measurements were made in the Los Angeles area, where the aggregates may represent a signature for diesel emissions. Rural aggregate concentrations in the size range 50 to 120 nm were less than 1% of the concentrations at urban sites. The data will permit better estimates of atmospheric aggregate residence times, transport, and deposition in the lung, optical extinction, and heterogenous nucleation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A generic statistical mechanical model is presented for the self-assembly of chiral rod-like units, such as β-sheet-forming peptides, into helical tapes, which with increasing concentration associate into twisted ribbons (double tapes), fibrils (twisted stacks of ribbons), and fibers (entwined fibrils). The finite fibril width and helicity is shown to stem from a competition between the free energy gain from attraction between ribbons and the penalty because of elastic distortion of the intrinsically twisted ribbons on incorporation into a growing fibril. Fibers are stabilized similarly. The behavior of two rationally designed 11-aa residue peptides, P11-I and P11-II, is illustrative of the proposed scheme. P11-I and P11-II are designed to adopt the β-strand conformation and to self-assemble in one dimension to form antiparallel β-sheet tapes, ribbons, fibrils, and fibers in well-defined solution conditions. The energetic parameters governing self-assembly have been estimated from the experimental data using the model. The 8-nm-wide fibrils consist of eight tapes, are extremely robust (scission energy ≈200 kBT), and sufficiently rigid (persistence length l̃fibril ≈ 20–70 μm) to form nematic solutions at peptide concentration c ≈ 0.9 mM (volume fraction ≈0.0009 vol/vol), which convert to self-supporting nematic gels at c > 4 mM. More generally, these observations provide a new insight into the generic self-assembling properties of β-sheet-forming peptides and shed new light on the factors governing the structures and stability of pathological amyloid fibrils in vivo. The model also provides a prescription of routes to novel macromolecules based on a variety of self-assembling chiral units, and protocols for extraction of the associated energy changes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The recent discovery of an ancient reservoir of icy bodies at and beyond the orbit of Neptune—the Kuiper belt—has opened a new frontier in astronomy. Measurements of the physical and chemical nature of Kuiper belt objects (KBOs) can constrain our ideas of the processes of planet formation and evolution. Our 1.8-m Vatican Advanced Technology Telescope and charge-coupled device camera observations of the KBO 1998 SM165 indicate its brightness periodically varies by 0.56 magnitudes over a 4-h interval. If we assume a uniform albedo of 0.04, which is typical of values found in the literature for a handful of KBOs, and an “equator-on” aspect, we find 1998 SM165 has axes of length 600 × 360 km. If our assumptions are correct, such dimensions put 1998 SM165 among the largest elongated objects known in our solar system. Perhaps long ago, two nearly spherical KBOs of comparable size coalesced to form a compound object, or perhaps 1998 SM165 is the residual core of a catastrophic fragmentation of a larger precursor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Flavoproteins can function as hydrophobic sites for vitamin B2 (riboflavin) or, in other structures, with cofactors for catalytic reactions such as glucose oxidation. In this contribution, we report direct observation of charge separation and recombination in two flavoproteins: riboflavin-binding protein and glucose oxidase. With femtosecond resolution, we observed the ultrafast electron transfer from tryptophan(s) to riboflavin in the riboflavin-binding protein, with two reaction times: ≈100 fs (86% component) and 700 fs (14%). The charge recombination was observed to take place in 8 ps, as probed by the decay of the charge-separated state and the recovery of the ground state. The time scale for charge separation and recombination indicates the local structural tightness for the dynamics to occur that fast and with efficiency of more than 99%. In contrast, in glucose oxidase, electron transfer between flavin-adenine-dinucleotide and tryptophan(s)/tyrosine(s) takes much longer times, 1.8 ps (75%) and 10 ps (25%); the corresponding charge recombination occurs on two time scales, 30 ps and nanoseconds, and the efficiency is still more than 97%. The contrast in time scales for the two structurally different proteins (of the same family) correlates with the distinction in function: hydrophobic recognition of the vitamin in the former requires a tightly bound structure (ultrafast dynamics), and oxidation-reduction reactions in the latter prefer the formation of a charge-separated state that lives long enough for chemistry to occur efficiently. Finally, we also studied the influence on the dynamics of protein conformations at different ionic strengths and denaturant concentrations and observed the sharp collapse of the hydrophobic cleft and, in contrast, the gradual change of glucose oxidase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this contribution, we report studies of the primary dynamics of the drug–protein complexes of daunomycin with apo riboflavin-binding protein. With femtosecond resolution, we observed the ultrafast charge separation between daunomycin and aromatic amino acid residues of the protein, tryptophan(s). Electron transfer occurs from tryptophan(s) to daunomycin with two reaction times, 1 ps and 6 ps, depending on the local complex structure. The formation of anionic daunomycin radical is crucial for triggering a series of chemical reactions in redox cycling. One of the subsequent reactions is the reduction of dioxygen to form active superoxide by the reduced daunomycin. This catalytic process was found to occur within 10 ps. In the absence of dioxygen, charge recombination takes a much longer time, more than 100 ps. These results, along with similar findings in DNA and nucleotides, elucidate that the ultrafast generation of reduced daunomycin radicals by photoactivation is a primary step for the observed photoenhancement of drug cytotoxicity by several orders of magnitude. We also studied the dependence of the dynamics on protein conformations at different ionic strengths and denaturant concentrations. We observe a sharp transition from the tertiary structure to the unfolding state at 2 M of denaturant concentration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The binding of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) to the type-1 TNF receptor (TNFRc1) plays an important role in inflammation. Despite the clinical success of biologics (antibodies, soluble receptors) for treating TNF-based autoimmune conditions, no potent small molecule antagonists have been developed. Our screening of chemical libraries revealed that N-alkyl 5-arylidene-2-thioxo-1,3-thiazolidin-4-ones were antagonists of this protein–protein interaction. After chemical optimization, we discovered IW927, which potently disrupted the binding of TNF-α to TNFRc1 (IC50 = 50 nM) and also blocked TNF-stimulated phosphorylation of Iκ-B in Ramos cells (IC50 = 600 nM). This compound did not bind detectably to the related cytokine receptors TNFRc2 or CD40, and did not display any cytotoxicity at concentrations as high as 100 μM. Detailed evaluation of this and related molecules revealed that compounds in this class are “photochemically enhanced” inhibitors, in that they bind reversibly to the TNFRc1 with weak affinity (ca. 40–100 μM) and then covalently modify the receptor via a photochemical reaction. We obtained a crystal structure of IV703 (a close analog of IW927) bound to the TNFRc1. This structure clearly revealed that one of the aromatic rings of the inhibitor was covalently linked to the receptor through the main-chain nitrogen of Ala-62, a residue that has already been implicated in the binding of TNF-α to the TNFRc1. When combined with the fact that our inhibitors are reversible binders in light-excluded conditions, the results of the crystallography provide the basis for the rational design of nonphotoreactive inhibitors of the TNF-α–TNFRc1 interaction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The foundation of marine coral reef ecosystems is calcium carbonate accumulated primarily by the action of hard corals (Coelenterata: Anthozoa: Scleractinia). Colonial hard coral polyps cover the surface of the reef and deposit calcium carbonate as the aragonite polymorph, stabilized into a continuous calcareous skeleton. Scleractinian coral skeleton composition and architecture are well documented; however, the cellular mechanisms of calcification are poorly understood. There is little information on the nature of the coral cell types involved or their cooperation in biocalcification. We report aragonite crystallization in primary cell cultures of a hard coral, Pocillopora damicornis. Cells of apical coral colony fragments were isolated by spontaneous in vitro dissociation. Single dissociated cell types were separated by density in a discontinuous Percoll gradient. Primary cell cultures displayed a transient increase in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, to the level observed in intact corals. In adherent multicellular isolate cultures, enzyme activation was followed by precipitation of aragonite. Modification of the ionic formulation of the medium prolonged maintenance of isolates, delayed ALP activation, and delayed aragonite precipitation. These results demonstrate that in vitro crystallization of aragonite in coral cell cultures is possible, and provides an innovative approach to investigate reef-building coral calcification at the cellular level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Between A.D. 900 and 1150, more than 200,000 conifer trees were used to build the prehistoric great houses of Chaco Canyon, New Mexico, in what is now a treeless landscape. More than one-fifth of these timbers were spruce (Picea) or fir (Abies) that were hand-carried from isolated mountaintops 75–100 km away. Because strontium from local dust, water, and underlying bedrock is incorporated by trees, specific logging sites can be identified by comparing 87Sr/86Sr ratios in construction beams from different ruins and building periods to ratios in living trees from the surrounding mountains. 87Sr/86Sr ratios show that the beams came from both the Chuska and San Mateo (Mount Taylor) mountains, but not from the San Pedro Mountains, which are equally close. Incorporation of logs from two sources in the same room, great house, and year suggest stockpiling and intercommunity collaboration at Chaco Canyon. The use of trees from both the Chuska and San Mateo mountains, but not from the San Pedro Mountains, as early as A.D. 974 suggests that selection of timber sources was driven more by regional socioeconomic ties than by a simple model of resource depletion with distance and time.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The distribution of aqueous Pb(II) sorbed at the interface between Burkholderia cepacia biofilms and hematite (α-Fe2O3) or corundum (α-Al2O3) surfaces has been probed by using an application of the long-period x-ray standing wave technique. Attached bacteria and adsorbed organic matter may interfere with sorption processes on metal oxide surfaces by changing the characteristics of the electrical double layer at the solid–solution interface, blocking surface sites, or providing a variety of new sites for metal binding. In this work, Pb Lα fluorescence yield profiles for samples equilibrated with 10−7 to 10−3.8 M Pb(II) were measured and modeled to determine quantitatively the partitioning of Pb(II) at the biofilm–metal oxide interface. Our data show that the reactive sites on the metal oxide surfaces were not passivated by the formation of a monolayer biofilm. Instead, high-energy surface sites on the metal oxides form the dominant sink for Pb(II) at submicromolar concentrations, following the trend α-Fe2O3 (0001) > α-Al2O3 (11̄02) > α-Al2O3 (0001), despite the greater site density within the overlying biofilms. At [Pb] > 10−6 M, significant Pb uptake by the biofilms was observed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Copper–oxide-based high-temperature superconductors have complex phase diagrams with multiple ordered phases. It even appears that the highest superconducting transition temperatures for certain cuprates are found in samples that display simultaneous onset of magnetism and superconductivity. We show here how the thermodynamics of fluid mixtures—a touchstone for chemistry as well as hard and soft condensed matter physics—accounts for this startling observation, as well as many other properties of the cuprates in the vicinity of the instability toward “striped” magnetism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two of the primary cues used to localize the sources of sounds are interaural level differences (ILDs) and interaural time differences (ITDs). We conducted two experiments to explore how practice affects the human discrimination of values of ILDs and ongoing ITDs presented over headphones. We measured discrimination thresholds of 13 to 32 naive listeners in a variety of conditions during a pretest and again, 2 weeks later, during a posttest. Between those two tests, we trained a subset of listeners 1 h per day for 9 days on a single ILD or ITD condition. Listeners improved on both ILD and ITD discrimination. Improvement was initially rapid for both cue types and appeared to generalize broadly across conditions, indicating conceptual or procedural learning. A subsequent slower-improvement stage, which occurred solely for the ILD cue, only affected conditions with the trained stimulus frequency, suggesting that stimulus processing had fundamentally changed. These different learning patterns indicate that practice affects the attention to, or low-level encoding of, ILDs and ITDs at sites at which the two cue types are processed separately. Thus, these data reveal differences in the effect of practice on ILD and ITD discrimination, and provide insight into the encoding of these two cues to sound-source location in humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The widespread planting of corn genetically modified to produce Bacillus thuringiensis endotoxin has led to speculation that pollen from these fields might adversely affect nearby nontarget lepidopterans. A previous study of Bt corn engineered with Monsanto event 810 failed to detect an effect of pollen exposure on the black swallowtail, Papilio polyxenes, in either the field or the laboratory. Here, we report results of a field study investigating the impact of exposure to pollen from a Bt corn hybrid containing Novartis event 176 on two species of Lepidoptera, black swallowtails and monarch butterflies, Danaus plexippus. Nearly half of the 600 monarch larvae died within the first 24 h; this and subsequent mortality was not associated with proximity to Bt corn and may have been due in part to predation. Survivorship of black swallowtails was much higher than that of the monarchs and was also independent of proximity to the transgenic corn. However, despite five rainfall events that removed much of the pollen from the leaves of their host plants during the experiment, we observed a significant reduction in growth rates of black swallowtail larvae that was likely caused by pollen exposure. These results suggest that Bt corn incorporating event 176 can have adverse sublethal effects on black swallowtails in the field and underscore the importance of event selection in reducing environmental impacts of transgenic plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To assess the likelihood that monarch larvae will be exposed to Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) pollen, we studied milkweed and monarch densities in habitats which comprise much of the land available to breeding monarchs, e.g., cornfields, cornfield edges, other agricultural fields, and nonagricultural areas, in four regions of the monarch breeding range. We found that monarchs use milkweed in cornfields throughout their breeding season, and that per plant densities are as high or higher in agricultural habitats as in nonagricultural habitats. As a result of the prevalence of agricultural land, most of the monarchs produced in the upper Midwest are likely to originate in cornfields or other agricultural habitats. There was a greater temporal overlap between susceptible monarchs and corn anthesis in the northern than the southern part of the summer breeding range, because of earlier pollen shed in the south. The importance of agricultural habitats to monarch production suggests that, regardless of the impact of genetically modified crops, agricultural practices such as weed control and foliar insecticide use could have large impacts on monarch populations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The density of corn pollen on leaves of milkweed plants inside and outside of cornfields was measured in several studies from different localities. The purpose was to obtain a representative picture of naturally occurring pollen densities to provide a perspective for laboratory and field studies of monarch larvae feeding on milkweed leaves with Bt corn pollen. Pollen density was highest (average 170.6 grains per cm2) inside the cornfield and was progressively lower from the field edge outward, falling to 14.2 grains per cm2 at 2 m. Inside the cornfield, and for each distance from the field edge, a frequency distribution is presented showing the proportion of leaf samples with different pollen densities. Inside cornfields, 95% of leaf samples had pollen densities below 600 grains per cm2 and the highest pollen density observed was 1400 grains per cm2, which occurred in a study with a rainless anthesis period. All other studies had rainfall events during the anthesis period. A single rain event can remove 54–86% of the pollen on leaves. Leaves on the upper portion of milkweed plants, where young monarch larvae tend to feed, had only 30–50% of the pollen density levels of middle leaves.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Laboratory tests were conducted to establish the relative toxicity of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxins and pollen from Bt corn to monarch larvae. Toxins tested included Cry1Ab, Cry1Ac, Cry9C, and Cry1F. Three methods were used: (i) purified toxins incorporated into artificial diet, (ii) pollen collected from Bt corn hybrids applied directly to milkweed leaf discs, and (iii) Bt pollen contaminated with corn tassel material applied directly to milkweed leaf discs. Bioassays of purified Bt toxins indicate that Cry9C and Cry1F proteins are relatively nontoxic to monarch first instars, whereas first instars are sensitive to Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac proteins. Older instars were 12 to 23 times less susceptible to Cry1Ab toxin compared with first instars. Pollen bioassays suggest that pollen contaminants, an artifact of pollen processing, can dramatically influence larval survival and weight gains and produce spurious results. The only transgenic corn pollen that consistently affected monarch larvae was from Cry1Ab event 176 hybrids, currently <2% corn planted and for which re-registration has not been applied. Results from the other types of Bt corn suggest that pollen from the Cry1Ab (events Bt11 and Mon810) and Cry1F, and experimental Cry9C hybrids, will have no acute effects on monarch butterfly larvae in field settings.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Survival and growth of monarch larvae, Danaus plexippus (L.), after exposure to either Cry1Ab-expressing pollen from three Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) corn (Zea mays L.) events differing in toxin expression or to the insecticide, λ-cyhalothrin, were examined in field studies. First instars exposed to low doses (≈22 grains per cm2) of event-176 pollen gained 18% less weight than those exposed to Bt11 or Mon810 pollen after a 5-day exposure period. Larvae exposed to 67 pollen grains per cm2 on milkweed leaves from within an event-176 field exhibited 60% lower survivorship and 42% less weight gain compared with those exposed to leaves from outside the field. In contrast, Bt11 pollen had no effect on growth to adulthood or survival of first or third instars exposed for 5 days to ≈55 and 97 pollen grains per cm2, respectively. Similarly, no differences in larval survivorship were observed after a 4-day exposure period to leaves with 504–586 (within fields) or 18–22 (outside the field) pollen grains per cm2 collected from Bt11 and non-Bt sweet-corn fields. However, survivorship and weight gain were drastically reduced in non-Bt fields treated with λ-cyhalothrin. The effects of Bt11 and Mon810 pollen on the survivorship of larvae feeding 14 to 22 days on milkweeds in fields were negligible. Further studies should examine the lifetime and reproductive impact of Bt11 and Mon810 pollen on monarchs after long-term exposure to naturally deposited pollen.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A collaborative research effort by scientists in several states and in Canada has produced information to develop a formal risk assessment of the impact of Bt corn on monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) populations. Information was sought on the acute toxic effects of Bt corn pollen and the degree to which monarch larvae would be exposed to toxic amounts of Bt pollen on its host plant, the common milkweed, Asclepias syriaca, found in and around cornfields. Expression of Cry proteins, the active toxicant found in Bt corn tissues, differed among hybrids, and especially so in the concentrations found in pollen of different events. In most commercial hybrids, Bt expression in pollen is low, and laboratory and field studies show no acute toxic effects at any pollen density that would be encountered in the field. Other factors mitigating exposure of larvae include the variable and limited overlap between pollen shed and larval activity periods, the fact that only a portion of the monarch population utilizes milkweed stands in and near cornfields, and the current adoption rate of Bt corn at 19% of North American corn-growing areas. This 2-year study suggests that the impact of Bt corn pollen from current commercial hybrids on monarch butterfly populations is negligible.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The nuclear envelope (NE) is one of the least characterized structures of eukaryotic cells. The study of its functional roles is hampered by the small number of proteins known to be specifically located to it. Here, we present a comprehensive characterization of the NE proteome. We applied different fractionation procedures and isolated protein subsets derived from distinct NE compartments. We identified 148 different proteins by 16-benzyl dimethyl hexadecyl ammonium chloride (16-BAC) gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry; among them were 19 previously unknown or noncharacterized. The identification of known proteins in particular NE fractions enabled us to assign novel proteins to NE substructures. Thus, our subcellular proteomics approach retains the screening character of classical proteomic studies, but also allows a number of predictions about subcellular localization and interactions of previously noncharacterized proteins. We demonstrate this result by showing that two novel transmembrane proteins, a 100-kDa protein with similarity to Caenorhabditis elegans Unc-84A and an unrelated 45-kDa protein we named LUMA, reside in the inner nuclear membrane and likely interact with the nuclear lamina. The utility of our approach is not restricted to the investigation of the NE. Our approach should be applicable to the analysis of other complex membrane structures of the cell as well.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The structure of the higher-order chromatin fiber has not been defined in detail. We have used a novel approach based on sucrose gradient centrifugation to compare the conformation of centromeric satellite DNA-containing higher-order chromatin fibers with bulk chromatin fibers obtained from the same mouse fibroblast cells. Our data show that chromatin fibers derived from the centromeric domain of a chromosome exist in a more condensed structure than bulk chromatin whereas pericentromeric chromatin fibers have an intermediate conformation. From the standpoint of current models, our data are interpreted to suggest that satellite chromatin adopts a regular helical conformation compatible with the canonical 30-nm chromatin fiber whereas bulk chromatin fibers appear less regularly folded and are perhaps intermittently interrupted by deformations. This distinctive conformation of the higher-order chromatin fiber in the centromeric domain of the mammalian chromosome could play a role in the formation of heterochromatin and in the determination of centromere identity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The protein ataxin-3 contains a polyglutamine region; increasing the number of glutamines beyond 55 in this region gives rise to the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 3. This disease and other polyglutamine expansion diseases are characterized by large intranuclear protein aggregates (nuclear inclusions). By using full-length human ataxin-3, we have investigated the changes in secondary structure, aggregation behavior, and fibril formation associated with an increase from the normal length of 27 glutamines (Q27 ataxin-3) to a pathogenic length of 78 glutamines (Q78 ataxin-3). Q78 ataxin-3 aggregates strongly and could be purified only when expressed with a solubility-enhancing fusion-protein partner. A marked decrease in α-helical secondary structure accompanies expansion of the polyglutamine tract, suggesting destabilization of the native protein. Proteolytic removal of the fusion partner in the Q78 protein, but not in the Q27 protein, leads to the formation of SDS-resistant aggregates and Congo-red reactive fibrils. Infrared spectroscopy of fibrils reveals a high β-sheet content and suggests a parallel, rather than an antiparallel, sheet conformation. We present a model for a polar zipper composed of parallel polyglutamine β-sheets. Our data show that intact ataxin-3 is fully competent to form aggregates, and posttranslational cleavage or other processing is not necessary to generate a misfolding event. The data also suggest that the protein aggregation phenotype associated with glutamine expansion may derive from two effects: destabilization of the native protein structure and an inherent propensity for β-fibril formation on the part of glutamine homopolymers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The myeloperoxidase system of neutrophils uses hydrogen peroxide and chloride to generate hypochlorous acid, a potent bactericidal oxidant in vitro. In a mouse model of polymicrobial sepsis, we observed that mice deficient in myeloperoxidase were more likely than wild-type mice to die from infection. Mass spectrometric analysis of peritoneal inflammatory fluid from septic wild-type mice detected elevated concentrations of 3-chlorotyrosine, a characteristic end product of the myeloperoxidase system. Levels of 3-chlorotyrosine did not rise in the septic myeloperoxidase-deficient mice. Thus, myeloperoxidase seems to protect against sepsis in vivo by producing halogenating species. Surprisingly, levels of 3-bromotyrosine also were elevated in peritoneal fluid from septic wild-type mice and were markedly reduced in peritoneal fluid from septic myeloperoxidase-deficient mice. Furthermore, physiologic concentrations of bromide modulated the bactericidal effects of myeloperoxidase in vitro. It seems, therefore, that myeloperoxidase can use bromide as well as chloride to produce oxidants in vivo, even though the extracellular concentration of bromide is at least 1,000-fold lower than that of chloride. Thus, myeloperoxidase plays an important role in host defense against bacterial pathogens, and bromide might be a previously unsuspected component of this system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The high-resolution crystal structure of the N-terminal central region of bovine fibrinogen (a 35-kDa E5 fragment) reveals a remarkable dimeric design. The two halves of the molecule bond together at the center in an extensive molecular “handshake” by using both disulfide linkages and noncovalent contacts. On one face of the fragment, the Aα and Bβ chains from the two monomers form a funnel-shaped domain with an unusual hydrophobic cavity; here, on each of the two outer sides there appears to be a binding site for thrombin. On the opposite face, the N-terminal γ chains fold into a separate domain. Despite the chemical identity of the two halves of fibrinogen, an unusual pair of adjacent disulfide bonds locally constrain the two γ chains to adopt different conformations. The striking asymmetry of this domain may promote the known supercoiling of the protofibrils in fibrin. This information on the detailed topology of the E5 fragment permits the construction of a more detailed model than previously possible for the critical trimolecular junction of the protofibril in fibrin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A crystal structure of the anaerobic Ni-Fe-S carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (CODH) from Rhodospirillum rubrum has been determined to 2.8-Å resolution. The CODH family, for which the R. rubrum enzyme is the prototype, catalyzes the biological oxidation of CO at an unusual Ni-Fe-S cluster called the C-cluster. The Ni-Fe-S C-cluster contains a mononuclear site and a four-metal cubane. Surprisingly, anomalous dispersion data suggest that the mononuclear site contains Fe and not Ni, and the four-metal cubane has the form [NiFe3S4] and not [Fe4S4]. The mononuclear site and the four-metal cluster are bridged by means of Cys531 and one of the sulfides of the cube. CODH is organized as a dimer with a previously unidentified [Fe4S4] cluster bridging the two subunits. Each monomer is comprised of three domains: a helical domain at the N terminus, an α/β (Rossmann-like) domain in the middle, and an α/β (Rossmann-like) domain at the C terminus. The helical domain contributes ligands to the bridging [Fe4S4] cluster and another [Fe4S4] cluster, the B-cluster, which is involved in electron transfer. The two Rossmann domains contribute ligands to the active site C-cluster. This x-ray structure provides insight into the mechanism of biological CO oxidation and has broader significance for the roles of Ni and Fe in biological systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A cDNA encoding a protein of 36 kDa, polymerase delta-interacting protein 1 (PDIP1), that interacts with the small subunit (p50) of DNA polymerase δ (pol δ) was identified in a two-hybrid screen of a HepG2 cDNA library by using p50 as bait. The interaction of PDIP1 with p50 was confirmed by pull-down assays, and a similar assay was used to demonstrate that PDIP1 interacts directly with the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). PCNA and p50 bound to PDIP1 simultaneously, and PDIP1 stimulated pol δ activity in vitro in the presence, but not the absence, of PCNA, suggesting that PDIP1 also interacts functionally with both p50 and PCNA. Subcellular localization studies demonstrated that PDIP1 is a nuclear protein that colocalizes with PCNA at replication foci. A putative PCNA-binding motif was identified within the C terminus of PDIP1, and a synthetic peptide containing this PCNA-binding motif was shown to bind PCNA by far-Western analysis. Northern analysis demonstrated that PDIP1 mRNA is present in a wide variety of human tissues. PDIP1 was found to be highly homologous to a previously identified protein, B12 [Wolf, F. W., Marks, R. M., Sarma. V., Byers, M. G., Katz, R. W., Shows, T. B. & Dixit, V. M. (1992) J. Biol. Chem. 267, 1317–1326], one of the early response genes induced by tumor necrosis factor α. PDIP1 synthesis can also be induced by tumor necrosis factor α and by IL-6, cytokines essential for liver regeneration after loss of hepatic tissue. It is suggested that PDIP1 provides a link between cytokine activation and DNA replication in liver as well as in other tissues.
DOC DONE!Abstract
With the identification of eight new polypeptides, we here complete the subunit characterization of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe RNA polymerase II holoenzyme. The complex contains homologs to all 10 essential gene products present in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Mediator, but lacks clear homologs to any of the 10 S. cerevisiae components encoded by nonessential genes. S. pombe Mediator instead contains three unique components (Pmc2, -3, and -6), which lack homologs in other cell types. Presently, pmc2+ and pmc3+ have been shown to be nonessential genes. The data suggest that S. pombe and S. cerevisiae share an essential protein module, which associates with nonessential speciesspecific subunits. In support of this view, sequence analysis of the conserved yeast Mediator components Med4 and Med8 reveals sequence homology to the metazoan Mediator components Trap36 and Arc32. Therefore, 8 of 10 essential genes conserved between S. pombe and S. cerevisiae also have a metazoan homolog, indicating that an evolutionary conserved Mediator core is present in all eukaryotic cells. Our data suggest a closer functional relationship between yeast and metazoan Mediator than previously anticipated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
S1 is the largest ribosomal protein, present in the small subunit of the bacterial ribosome. It has a pivotal role in stabilizing the mRNA on the ribosome. Thus far, S1 has eluded structural determination. We have identified the S1 protein mass in the cryo-electron microscopic map of the Escherichia coli ribosome by comparing the map with a recent x-ray crystallographic structure of the 30S subunit, which lacks S1. According to our finding, S1 is located at the junction of head, platform, and main body of the 30S subunit, thus explaining all existing biochemical and crosslinking data. Protein S1 as identified in our map has a complex, elongated shape with two holes in its central portion. The N-terminal domain, forming one of the extensions, penetrates into the head of the 30S subunit. Evidence for direct interaction of S1 with 11 nucleotides of the mRNA, immediately upstream of the Shine–Dalgarno sequence, explains the protein's role in the recognition of the 5′ region of mRNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The origin recognition complex (ORC) is the DNA replication initiator protein in eukaryotes. We have reconstituted a functional recombinant Drosophila ORC and compared activities of the wild-type and several mutant ORC variants. Drosophila ORC is an ATPase, and our studies show that the ORC1 subunit is essential for ATP hydrolysis and for ATP-dependent DNA binding. Moreover, DNA binding by ORC reduces its ATP hydrolysis activity. In vitro, ORC binds to chromatin in an ATP-dependent manner, and this process depends on the functional AAA+ nucleotide-binding domain of ORC1. Mutations in the ATP-binding domain of ORC1 are unable to support cell-free DNA replication. However, mutations in the putative ATP-binding domain of either the ORC4 or ORC5 subunits do not affect either of these functions. We also provide evidence that the Drosophila ORC6 subunit is directly required for all of these activities and that a large pool of ORC6 is present in the cytoplasm, cytologically proximal to the cell membrane. Studies reported here provide the first functional dissection of a metazoan initiator and highlight the basic conserved and divergent features among Drosophila and budding yeast ORC complexes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
UDP-xylose is a sugar donor required for the synthesis of diverse and important glycan structures in animals, plants, fungi, and bacteria. Xylose-containing glycans are particularly abundant in plants and in the polysaccharide capsule that is the major virulence factor of the pathogenic fungus Cryptococcus neoformans. Biosynthesis of UDP-xylose is mediated by UDP-glucuronic acid decarboxylase, which converts UDP-glucuronic acid to UDP-xylose. Although this enzymatic activity was described over 40 years ago it has never been fully purified, and the gene encoding it has not been identified. We used homology to a bacterial gene, hypothesized to encode a related function, to identify a cryptococcal sequence as putatively encoding a UDP-glucuronic acid decarboxylase. A soluble 47-kDa protein derived from bacteria expressing the C. neoformans gene catalyzed conversion of UDP-glucuronic acid to UDP-xylose, as confirmed by NMR analysis. NADH, UDP, and UDP-xylose inhibit the activity. Close homologs of the cryptococcal gene, which we termed UXS1, appear in genome sequence data from organisms ranging from bacteria to humans.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The phospholipase D (PLD) superfamily is a diverse group of proteins that includes enzymes involved in phospholipid metabolism, a bacterial toxin, poxvirus envelope proteins, and bacterial nucleases. Based on sequence comparisons, we show here that the tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase (Tdp1) that has been implicated in the repair of topoisomerase I covalent complexes with DNA contains two unusual HKD signature motifs that place the enzyme in a distinct class within the PLD superfamily. Mutagenesis studies with the human enzyme in which the invariant histidines and lysines of the HKD motifs are changed confirm that these highly conserved residues are essential for Tdp1 activity. Furthermore, we show that, like other members of the family for which it has been examined, the reaction involves the formation of an intermediate in which the cleaved substrate is covalently linked to the enzyme. These results reveal that the hydrolytic reaction catalyzed by Tdp1 occurs by the phosphoryl transfer chemistry that is common to all members of the PLD superfamily.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A generic statistical mechanical model is presented for the self-assembly of chiral rod-like units, such as β-sheet-forming peptides, into helical tapes, which with increasing concentration associate into twisted ribbons (double tapes), fibrils (twisted stacks of ribbons), and fibers (entwined fibrils). The finite fibril width and helicity is shown to stem from a competition between the free energy gain from attraction between ribbons and the penalty because of elastic distortion of the intrinsically twisted ribbons on incorporation into a growing fibril. Fibers are stabilized similarly. The behavior of two rationally designed 11-aa residue peptides, P11-I and P11-II, is illustrative of the proposed scheme. P11-I and P11-II are designed to adopt the β-strand conformation and to self-assemble in one dimension to form antiparallel β-sheet tapes, ribbons, fibrils, and fibers in well-defined solution conditions. The energetic parameters governing self-assembly have been estimated from the experimental data using the model. The 8-nm-wide fibrils consist of eight tapes, are extremely robust (scission energy ≈200 kBT), and sufficiently rigid (persistence length l̃fibril ≈ 20–70 μm) to form nematic solutions at peptide concentration c ≈ 0.9 mM (volume fraction ≈0.0009 vol/vol), which convert to self-supporting nematic gels at c > 4 mM. More generally, these observations provide a new insight into the generic self-assembling properties of β-sheet-forming peptides and shed new light on the factors governing the structures and stability of pathological amyloid fibrils in vivo. The model also provides a prescription of routes to novel macromolecules based on a variety of self-assembling chiral units, and protocols for extraction of the associated energy changes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Flavoproteins can function as hydrophobic sites for vitamin B2 (riboflavin) or, in other structures, with cofactors for catalytic reactions such as glucose oxidation. In this contribution, we report direct observation of charge separation and recombination in two flavoproteins: riboflavin-binding protein and glucose oxidase. With femtosecond resolution, we observed the ultrafast electron transfer from tryptophan(s) to riboflavin in the riboflavin-binding protein, with two reaction times: ≈100 fs (86% component) and 700 fs (14%). The charge recombination was observed to take place in 8 ps, as probed by the decay of the charge-separated state and the recovery of the ground state. The time scale for charge separation and recombination indicates the local structural tightness for the dynamics to occur that fast and with efficiency of more than 99%. In contrast, in glucose oxidase, electron transfer between flavin-adenine-dinucleotide and tryptophan(s)/tyrosine(s) takes much longer times, 1.8 ps (75%) and 10 ps (25%); the corresponding charge recombination occurs on two time scales, 30 ps and nanoseconds, and the efficiency is still more than 97%. The contrast in time scales for the two structurally different proteins (of the same family) correlates with the distinction in function: hydrophobic recognition of the vitamin in the former requires a tightly bound structure (ultrafast dynamics), and oxidation-reduction reactions in the latter prefer the formation of a charge-separated state that lives long enough for chemistry to occur efficiently. Finally, we also studied the influence on the dynamics of protein conformations at different ionic strengths and denaturant concentrations and observed the sharp collapse of the hydrophobic cleft and, in contrast, the gradual change of glucose oxidase.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this contribution, we report studies of the primary dynamics of the drug–protein complexes of daunomycin with apo riboflavin-binding protein. With femtosecond resolution, we observed the ultrafast charge separation between daunomycin and aromatic amino acid residues of the protein, tryptophan(s). Electron transfer occurs from tryptophan(s) to daunomycin with two reaction times, 1 ps and 6 ps, depending on the local complex structure. The formation of anionic daunomycin radical is crucial for triggering a series of chemical reactions in redox cycling. One of the subsequent reactions is the reduction of dioxygen to form active superoxide by the reduced daunomycin. This catalytic process was found to occur within 10 ps. In the absence of dioxygen, charge recombination takes a much longer time, more than 100 ps. These results, along with similar findings in DNA and nucleotides, elucidate that the ultrafast generation of reduced daunomycin radicals by photoactivation is a primary step for the observed photoenhancement of drug cytotoxicity by several orders of magnitude. We also studied the dependence of the dynamics on protein conformations at different ionic strengths and denaturant concentrations. We observe a sharp transition from the tertiary structure to the unfolding state at 2 M of denaturant concentration.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Designed peptides that fold autonomously to specific conformations in aqueous solution are useful for elucidating protein secondary structural preferences. For example, autonomously folding model systems have been essential for establishing the relationship between α-helix length and α-helix stability, which would be impossible to probe with α-helices embedded in folded proteins. Here, we use designed peptides to examine the effect of strand length on antiparallel β-sheet stability. α-Helices become more stable as they grow longer. Our data show that a two-stranded β-sheet (“β-hairpin”) becomes more stable when the strands are lengthened from five to seven residues, but that further strand lengthening to nine residues does not lead to further β-hairpin stabilization for several extension sequences examined. (In one case, all-threonine extension, there may be an additional stabilization on strand lengthening from seven to nine residues.) These results suggest that there may be an intrinsic limit to strand length for most sequences in antiparallel β-sheet secondary structure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Uridine-rich small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (U snRNPs) are components of the splicing machinery that removes introns from precursor mRNA. Like other splicing factors, U snRNPs are diffusely distributed throughout the nucleus and, in addition, are concentrated in distinct nuclear substructures referred to as speckles. We have examined the intranuclear distribution and mobility of the splicing factor U1 snRNP on a single-molecule level. Isolated U1 snRNPs were fluorescently labeled and incubated with digitonin-permeabilized 3T3 cells in the presence of Xenopus egg extract. By confocal microscopy, U1 snRNPs were found to be imported into nuclei, yielding a speckled intranuclear distribution. Employing a laser video-microscope optimized for high sensitivity and high speed, single U1 snRNPs were visualized and tracked at a spatial precision of 35 nm and a time resolution of 30 ms. The single-particle data revealed that U1 snRNPs occurred in small clusters that colocalized with speckles. In the clusters, U1 snRNPs resided for a mean decay time of 84 ms before leaving the optical slice in the direction of the optical axis, which corresponded to a mean effective diffusion coefficient of 1 μm2/s. An analysis of the trajectories of single U1 snRNPs revealed that at least three kinetic classes of low, medium, and high mobility were present. Moreover, the mean square displacements of these fractions were virtually independent of time, suggesting arrays of binding sites. The results substantiate the view that nuclear speckles are not rigid structures but highly dynamic domains characterized by a rapid turnover of U1 snRNPs and other splicing factors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Peroxisomes are single membrane-bound organelles present in virtually all eukaryotes. These organelles participate in several important metabolic processes, and defects in peroxisome function and biogenesis are a significant contributor to human disease. Several models propose that peroxisomes arise from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in a process that involves the translocation of “group I” peroxisomal membrane proteins into the ER, the exit of these group I peroxisomal membrane proteins from the ER by vesicle budding, and the formation of nascent peroxisomes from vesicles containing the group I peroxisomal membrane proteins. A central prediction of these models is that the formation of nascent peroxisomes requires protein translocation into the ER. Sec61p is an essential component of the ER translocon, and we show here that loss of Sec61p activity has no effect on peroxisome biogenesis. In addition, loss of the SEC61-related gene, SSH1, also has no effect on peroxisome biogenesis. Although some proteins may enter the ER independently of Sec61p or Ssh1p, none are known, leading us to propose that peroxisome biogenesis may not require protein import into the ER, and by extension, transfer of proteins from the ER to the peroxisome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent studies suggested that simian virus 40 (SV40) may cause malignant mesothelioma, although the pathogenic mechanism is unclear. We found that in SV40-positive malignant mesothelioma cells, the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) receptor (Met) was activated. In human mesothelial cells (HMC) transfected with full-length SV40 DNA (SV40-HMC), Met receptor activation was associated with S-phase entry, acquisition of a fibroblastoid morphology, and the assembly of viral particles. Coculture experiments revealed the ability of SV40-HMC to infect permissive monkey cells (CV-1), HMC, and murine BNL CL cells. Cocultured human and murine SV40-positive cells expressed HGF, showed Met tyrosine phosphorylation and S-phase entry, and acquired a spindle-shaped morphology (spBNL), whereas CV-1 cells were lysed. Cocultured HMC inherited from SV40-HMC the infectivity, as they induced lysis in cocultured CV-1 cells. Treatment with suramin or HGF-blocking antibodies inhibited Met tyrosine phosphorylation in all large T antigen (Tag)-positive cells and reverted the spindle-shaped morphology of spBNL. This finding indicated that Met activation and subsequent biological effects were mediated by an autocrine HGF circuit. This, in turn, was causally related to Tag expression, being induced by transfection with the SV40 early region alone. Our findings suggest that when SV40 infects HMC it causes Met activation via an autocrine loop. Furthermore, SV40 replicates in HMC and infects the adjacent HMC, inducing an HGF-dependent Met activation and cell-cycle progression into S phase. This may explain how a limited number of SV40-positive cells may be sufficient to direct noninfected HMC toward malignant transformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Molecular chaperones are involved in the protection of cells against protein damage through their ability to hold, disaggregate, and refold damaged proteins or their ability to facilitate degradation of damaged proteins. Little is known about how these processes are spatially coordinated in cells. Using a heat-sensitive nuclear model protein luciferase fused to the traceable, heat-stable enhanced green fluorescent protein (N-luc-EGFP), we now show that heat inactivation and insolubilization of luciferase were associated with accumulation of N-luc-EGFP at multiple foci throughout the nucleus. Coexpression of Hsp70, one of the major mammalian chaperones, reduced the formation of these small foci during heat shock. Instead, the heat-unfolded N-luc-EGFP accumulated in large, insoluble foci. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that these foci colocalized with the nucleoli. Time-lapse analysis demonstrated that protein translocation to the nucleolus, in contrast to the accumulation at small foci, was fully reversible upon return to the normal growth temperature. This reversibility was associated with an increase in the level of active and soluble luciferase. Expression of a carboxyl-terminal deletion mutant of Hsp70(1–543), which lacked chaperone activity, had no effect on the localization of N-luc-EGFP, which suggests that the Hsp70 chaperone activity is required for the translocation events. Our data show that Hsp70 not only is involved in holding and refolding of heat-unfolded nuclear proteins but also drives them to the nucleolus during stress. This might prevent random aggregation of thermolabile proteins within the nucleus, thereby allowing their refolding at the permissive conditions and preventing indirect damage to other nuclear components.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chromatid catenation is actively monitored in human cells, with progression from G2 to mitosis being inhibited when chromatids are insufficiently decatenated. Mitotic delay was quantified in normal and checkpoint-deficient human cells during treatment with ICRF-193, a topoisomerase II catalytic inhibitor that prevents chromatid decatenation without producing topoisomerase-associated DNA strand breaks. Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) cells, defective in DNA damage checkpoints, showed normal mitotic delay when treated with ICRF-193. The mitotic delay in response to ICRF-193 was ablated in human fibroblasts expressing an ataxia telangiectasia mutated- and rad3-related (ATR) kinase-inactive ATR allele (ATRki). BRCA1-mutant HCC1937 cells also displayed a defect in ICRF-193-induced mitotic delay, which was corrected by expression of wild-type BRCA1. Phosphorylations of hCds1 or Chk1 and inhibition of Cdk1 kinase activity, which are elements of checkpoints associated with DNA damage or replication, did not occur during ICRF-193-induced mitotic delay. Over-expression of cyclin B1 containing a dominant nuclear localization signal, and inhibition of Crm1-mediated nuclear export, reversed ICRF-193-induced mitotic delay. In combination, these results imply that ATR and BRCA1 enforce the decatenation G2 checkpoint, which may act to exclude cyclin B1/Cdk1 complexes from the nucleus. Moreover, induction of ATRki produced a 10-fold increase in chromosomal aberrations, further emphasizing the vital role for ATR in genetic stability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It has been recently reported that insulin recruits a novel signaling machinery to lipid rafts required for insulin-stimulated GLUT4 translocation [Baumann, A., Ribon, V., Kanzaki, M., Thurmond, D. C., Mora, S., Shigematsu, S., Bickel, P. E., Pessin, J. E. & Saltiel, A. R. (2001) Nature 407, 202–207, 2000; Chiang, S. H., Baumann, C. A., Kanzaki, M., Thurmond, D. C., Watson, R. T., Neudauer, C. L., Macara, I. G., Pessin, J. E. & Saltiel, A. R. (2001) Nature 410, 944–948]. We have assessed the role of lipid rafts on GLUT4 traffic in adipose cells. High GLUT4 levels were detected in caveolae from adipocytes by two approaches, the mechanical isolation of purified caveolae from plasma membrane lawns and the immunogold analysis of plasma membrane lawns followed by freeze-drying. The role of lipid rafts in GLUT4 trafficking was studied by adding nystatin or filipin at concentrations that specifically disrupt caveolae morphology and inhibit caveolae function without altering clathrin-mediated endocytosis. These caveolae inhibitors did not affect the insulin-stimulated glucose transport. However, they blocked both the GLUT4 internalization and the down-regulation of glucose transport triggered by insulin removal in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Our data indicate that lipid rafts are crucial for GLUT4 internalization after insulin removal. Given that high levels of GLUT4 were detected in caveolae from insulin-treated adipose cells, this transporter may be internalized from caveolae or caveolae may operate as an obligatory transition station before internalization.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Inflammation in asthma, sepsis, transplant rejection, and many neurodegenerative diseases associates an up-regulation of NO synthesis with increased protein nitration at tyrosine. Nitration can cause protein dysfunction and is implicated in pathogenesis, but few proteins that appear nitrated in vivo have been identified. To understand how this modification impacts physiology and disease, we used a proteomic approach toward targets of protein nitration in both in vivo and cell culture inflammatory disease models. This approach identified more than 40 nitrotyrosine-immunopositive proteins, including 30 not previously identified, that became modified as a consequence of the inflammatory response. These targets include proteins involved in oxidative stress, apoptosis, ATP production, and other metabolic functions. Our approach provides a means toward obtaining a comprehensive view of the nitroproteome and promises to broaden understanding of how NO regulates cellular processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Skeletal muscle fibers are defined by patterned covariation of key traits that determine contractile and metabolic characteristics. Although the functional properties of most skeletal muscles result from their proportional content of a few conserved muscle fiber types, some, typically craniofacial, muscles exhibit fiber types that appear to lie outside the common phenotypic range. We analyzed gene expression profiles of three putative muscle classes, limb, masticatory, and extraocular muscle (EOM), in adult mice by high-density oligonucleotide arrays. Pairwise comparisons using conservative acceptance criteria identified expression differences in 287 genes between EOM and limb and/or masticatory muscles. Use of significance analysis of microarrays methodology identified up to 400 genes as having an EOM-specific expression pattern. Genes differentially expressed in EOM reflect key aspects of muscle biology, including transcriptional regulation, sarcomeric organization, excitation-contraction coupling, intermediary metabolism, and immune response. These patterned differences in gene expression define EOM as a distinct muscle class and may explain the unique response of these muscles in neuromuscular diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although kin selection is central to the modern study of social evolution, recent studies of social species have revealed that no simple relationship exists between levels of kinship and sociality. The soldier-producing aphids are unique among highly social animals because, barring movement by aphids between colonies, they occur in clonal groups of genetically identical individuals. Potentially, clonality simplifies efforts to understand social evolution in aphids by obviating issues of intragroup conflict. However, we report here high levels of clonal mixing and conflict in an aphid society. The gall-dwelling colonies of a social aphid species (Pemphigus obesinymphae) are not pure clones, but are invaded by large numbers of aphids from other clones. Intruders behave and develop selfishly once they have invaded a colony of nonkin. They refrain from risky defensive behaviors and accelerate their own development into reproductive rather than defensive stages. This conditionality in the social life of P. obesinymphae reveals complex dynamics and a degree of behavioral plasticity not previously known in aphid societies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian cells can respond to damage or stress by entering a state of arrested growth and altered function termed cellular senescence. Several lines of evidence suggest that the senescence response suppresses tumorigenesis. Cellular senescence is also thought to contribute to aging, but the mechanism is not well understood. We show that senescent human fibroblasts stimulate premalignant and malignant, but not normal, epithelial cells to proliferate in culture and form tumors in mice. In culture, the growth stimulation was evident when senescent cells comprised only 10% of the fibroblast population and was equally robust whether senescence was induced by replicative exhaustion, oncogenic RAS, p14ARF, or hydrogen peroxide. Moreover, it was due at least in part to soluble and insoluble factors secreted by senescent cells. In mice, senescent, much more than presenescent, fibroblasts caused premalignant and malignant epithelial cells to form tumors. Our findings suggest that, although cellular senescence suppresses tumorigenesis early in life, it may promote cancer in aged organisms, suggesting it is an example of evolutionary antagonistic pleiotropy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The breast and ovarian susceptibility protein 1 (BRCA1) heterodimerizes with its structural relative, the BRCA1-associated RING domain protein (BARD1), which may have tumor suppressing function in its own right. Both proteins have evolved from a common evolutionary ancestor, and both exist in Xenopus laevis where, similar to their mammalian homologs, they form functional heterodimers. Depleting frog embryos of either BARD1 or BRCA1 led to similar and widely defective developmental phenotypes as well as depletion of the other polypeptide due to its decreased stability. Thus, each protein, in part, controls the abundance, stability, and function of the other, and these effects are heterodimerization-dependent. The interdependent nature of BRCA1 and BARD1 function supports the view that BARD1/BRCA1 heterodimers play a major role in breast and ovarian cancer suppression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent genetic studies have suggested that many genes contribute to differences between closely related species that prevent gene exchange, particularly hybrid male sterility and female species preferences. We have examined the genetic basis of hybrid sterility and female species preferences in Drosophila pseudoobscura and Drosophila persimilis, two occasionally hybridizing North American species. Contrary to findings in other species groups, very few regions of the genome were associated with these characters, and these regions are associated also with fixed arrangement differences (inversions) between these species. From our results, we propose a preliminary genic model whereby inversions may contribute to the speciation process, thereby explaining the abundance of arrangement differences between closely related species that co-occur geographically. We suggest that inversions create linkage groups that cause sterility to persist between hybridizing taxa. The maintenance of this sterility allows the species to persist in the face of gene flow longer than without such inversions, and natural selection will have a greater opportunity to decrease the frequency of interspecies matings.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sex is thought to facilitate accumulation of initially rare beneficial mutations by allowing simultaneous allele replacements at many loci. However, this advantage of sex depends on a restrictive assumption that the fitness of a genotype is determined by fitness potential, a single intermediate variable to which all loci contribute additively, so that new alleles can accumulate in any order. Individual-based simulations of sexual and asexual populations reveal that under generic selection, sex often retards adaptive evolution. When new alleles are beneficial only if they accumulate in a prescribed order, a sexual population may evolve two or more times slower than an asexual population because only asexual reproduction allows some overlap of successive allele replacements. Many other fitness surfaces lead to an even greater disadvantage of sex. Thus, either sex exists in spite of its impact on the rate of adaptive allele replacements, or natural fitness surfaces have rather specific properties, at least at the scale of intrapopulation genetic variability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The concept of ant slavery rests on the untested assumption that slave-making ants impose fitness costs on colonies of the species they raid. We tested that assumption by comparing the summertime seasonal productivity of Leptothorax spp. colonies in field exclosures without slavemakers, with a colony of the obligatory slave-making ant Protomognathus americanus, or with a colony of the obligatory slavemaker Leptothorax duloticus. Leptothorax longispinosus colonies placed in exclosures with P. americanus colonies did not differ significantly in any demographic attribute from colonies in exclosures without slavemakers. By contrast, Leptothorax curvispinosus colonies exposed to L. duloticus experienced significant reductions in dealate queens, workers, and larvae relative to control colonies exclosed without slavemakers. The pronounced difference in the impact of these slavemakers on their host-species populations correlates with differences in the behavior of the slavemakers observed in the laboratory and likely explains why P. americanus is more abundant than L. duloticus in nature. It seems that more advanced social parasites, like anatomical parasites, evolve to minimize their impact on their hosts, and thus can be regarded as “prudent social parasites.”
DOC DONE!Abstract
RNA viruses exist as quasispecies, heterogeneous and dynamic mixtures of mutants having one or more consensus sequences. An adequate description of the genomic structure of such viral populations must include the consensus sequence(s) plus a quantitative assessment of sequence heterogeneities. For example, in quality control of live attenuated viral vaccines, the presence of even small quantities of mutants or revertants may indicate incomplete or unstable attenuation that may influence vaccine safety. Previously, we demonstrated the monitoring of oral poliovirus vaccine with the use of mutant analysis by PCR and restriction enzyme cleavage (MAPREC). In this report, we investigate genetic variation in live attenuated mumps virus vaccine by using both MAPREC and a platform (DNA MassArray) based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. Mumps vaccines prepared from the Jeryl Lynn strain typically contain at least two distinct viral substrains, JL1 and JL2, which have been characterized by full length sequencing. We report the development of assays for characterizing sequence variants in these substrains and demonstrate their use in quantitative analysis of substrains and sequence variations in mixed virus cultures and mumps vaccines. The results obtained from both the MAPREC and MALDI-TOF methods showed excellent correlation. This suggests the potential utility of MALDI-TOF for routine quality control of live viral vaccines and for assessment of genetic stability and quantitative monitoring of genetic changes in other RNA viruses of clinical interest.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Open reading frame expressed sequences tags (ORESTES) differ from conventional ESTs by providing sequence data from the central protein coding portion of transcripts. We generated a total of 696,745 ORESTES sequences from 24 human tissues and used a subset of the data that correspond to a set of 15,095 full-length mRNAs as a means of assessing the efficiency of the strategy and its potential contribution to the definition of the human transcriptome. We estimate that ORESTES sampled over 80% of all highly and moderately expressed, and between 40% and 50% of rarely expressed, human genes. In our most thoroughly sequenced tissue, the breast, the 130,000 ORESTES generated are derived from transcripts from an estimated 70% of all genes expressed in that tissue, with an equally efficient representation of both highly and poorly expressed genes. In this respect, we find that the capacity of the ORESTES strategy both for gene discovery and shotgun transcript sequence generation significantly exceeds that of conventional ESTs. The distribution of ORESTES is such that many human transcripts are now represented by a scaffold of partial sequences distributed along the length of each gene product. The experimental joining of the scaffold components, by reverse transcription–PCR, represents a direct route to transcript finishing that may represent a useful alternative to full-length cDNA cloning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vertebrate cells have evolved two major pathways for repairing DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), homologous recombination (HR) and nonhomologous DNA end-joining (NHEJ). To investigate the role of DNA ligase IV (Lig4) in DSB repair, we knocked out the Lig4 gene (LIG4) in the DT40 chicken B-lymphocyte cell line. The LIG4−/− cells showed a marked sensitivity to X-rays, bleomycin, and VP-16 and were more x-ray-sensitive in G1 than late S or G2/M, suggesting a critical role of Lig4 in DSB repair by NHEJ. In support of this notion, HR was not impaired in LIG4−/− cells. LIG4−/− cells were more x-ray-sensitive when compared with KU70−/− DT40 cells, particularly at high doses. Strikingly, however, the x-ray sensitivity of KU70−/−/LIG4−/− double-mutant cells was essentially the same as that of KU70−/− cells, showing that Lig4 deficiency has no effect in the absence of Ku. These results indicate that Lig4 is exclusively required for the Ku-dependent NHEJ pathway of DSB repair and that other DNA ligases (I and III) do not substitute for this function. Our data may explain the observed severe phenotype of Lig4-deficient mice as compared with Ku-deficient mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have analyzed the pattern of core histone acetylation across 250 kb of the telomeric region of the short arm of human chromosome 16. This gene-dense region, which includes the α-globin genes and their regulatory elements embedded within widely expressed genes, shows marked differences in histone acetylation between erythroid and non-erythroid cells. In non-erythroid cells, there was a uniform 2- to 3-fold enrichment of acetylated histones, compared with heterochromatin, across the entire region. In erythroid cells, an ≈100-kb segment of chromatin encompassing the α genes and their remote major regulatory element was highly enriched in histone H4 acetylated at Lys-5. Other lysines in the N-terminal tail of histone H4 showed intermediate and variable levels of enrichment. Similar broad segments of erythroid-specific histone acetylation were found in the corresponding syntenic regions containing the mouse and chicken α-globin gene clusters. The borders of these regions of acetylation are located in similar positions in all three species, and a sharply defined 3′ boundary coincides with the previously identified breakpoint in conserved synteny between these species. We have therefore demonstrated that an erythroid-specific domain of acetylation has been conserved across several species, encompassing not only the α-globin genes but also a neighboring widely expressed gene. These results contrast with those at other clusters and demonstrate that not all genes are organized into discrete regulatory domains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Murine erythroleukemia (MEL) cells are a model system to study reorganization of the eukaryotic nucleus during terminal differentiation. Upon chemical induction, MEL cells undergo erythroid differentiation, leading to activation of globin gene expression. Both processes strongly depend on the transcriptional activator NF-E2. Before induction of differentiation, both subunits of the NF-E2 heterodimer are present, but little DNA-binding activity is detectable. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, we show that the two NF-E2 subunits occupy distinct nuclear compartments in uninduced MEL cells; the smaller subunit NF-E2p18 is found primarily in the centromeric heterochromatin compartment, whereas the larger subunit NF-E2p45 occupies the euchromatin compartment. Concomitant with the commitment period of differentiation that precedes globin gene activation, NF-E2p18, along with other transcriptional repressors, relocates to the euchromatin compartment. Thus, relocation of NF-E2 p18 may be a rate-limiting step in formation of an active NF-E2 complex. To understand the mechanisms of NF-E2 localization, we show that centromeric targeting of NF-E2p18 requires dimerization, but not with an erythroid-specific partner, and that the transactivation domain of NF-E2p45 may be necessary and sufficient to prevent its localization in centromeric heterochromatin. Finally, using fluorescence in situ hybridization, we show that, upon differentiation, the β-globin gene loci relocate away from heterochromatin compartments to euchromatin. This relocation correlates with both transcriptional activation of the globin locus and relocation of NF-E2p18 away from heterochromatin, suggesting that these processes are linked.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The abnormal oocyte (abo) gene of Drosophila melanogaster is a peculiar maternal effect gene whose mutations cause a maternal-effect lethality that can be rescued by specific regions of heterochromatin during early embryogenesis. Here we show that abo encodes an evolutionary conserved chromosomal protein that localizes exclusively to the histone gene cluster and binds to the regulatory regions of such genes. We also show a significant increase of histone transcripts in eggs of abo mutant mothers and a partial rescue of the abo maternal-effect defect by deficiencies of the histone gene cluster. On the basis of these results, we suggest that the Abo protein functions specifically as a negative regulator of histone transcription and propose a molecular model to account for the ability of heterochromatin to partially rescue the abo maternal-effect defect. Our model proposes that increased doses of specific heterochromatic regions titrate out abnormally high levels of histones present in embryos from mutant abo mothers and that a balanced pool of histones is critical for normal embryogenesis in Drosophila.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RNA editing changes the read-out of genetic information, increasing the number of different protein products that can be made from a single gene. One form involves the deamination of adenosine to form inosine, which is subsequently translated as guanosine. The reaction requires a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) substrate and is catalyzed by the adenosine deaminase that act on dsRNA (ADAR) family of enzymes. These enzymes possess dsRNA-binding domains (DRBM) and a catalytic domain. ADAR1 so far has been found only in vertebrates and is characterized by two Z-DNA-binding motifs, the biological function of which remains unknown. Here the role of the various functional domains of ADAR1 in determining the editing efficiency and specificity of ADAR1 is examined in cell-based assays. A variety of dsRNA substrates was tested. It was found that a 15-bp dsRNA stem with a single base mismatch was sufficient for editing. The particular adenosine modified could be varied by changing the position of the mismatch. Editing efficiency could be increased by placing multiple pyrimidines 5′ to the edited adenosine. With longer substrates, editing efficiency also increased and was partly due to the use of DRBMs. Additional editing sites were also observed that clustered on the complementary strand 11–15 bp from the first. An unexpected finding was that the DRBMs are not necessary for the editing of the shorter 15-bp substrates. However, mutation of the Z-DNA-binding domains of ADAR1 decreased the efficiency with which such a substrate was edited.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD26 is a T cell activation antigen that contains dipeptidyl peptidase IV activity and is known to bind adenosine deaminase. The mechanism by which CD26 costimulation potentiates T cell receptor-mediated T cell activation, leading to subsequent exertion of T cell effector function, is still not clearly defined. In this article, we demonstrate that CD26 localizes into lipid rafts, and targeting of CD26 to rafts is necessary for signaling events through CD26. Importantly, aggregation of CD26 by anti-CD26 mAb crosslinking also causes coaggregation of CD45 into rafts. Moreover, we show that CD26 directly binds to the cytoplasmic domain of CD45. Our results therefore indicate a mechanism whereby CD26 engagement promotes aggregation of lipid rafts and facilitates colocalization of CD45 to T cell receptor signaling molecules p56Lck, ZAP-70, and TCRζ, thereby enhancing protein tyrosine phosphorylation of various signaling molecules and subsequent interleukin-2 production.
DOC DONE!Abstract
HIV-1-infected cells can avoid cytotoxic T lymphocyte killing by Nef-mediated down-regulation of surface MHC I. Here, we show that HIV-1 Nef inhibits MHC II restricted peptide presentation to specific T cells and thus may affect the induction of antiviral immune responses. Nef mediates this effect by reducing the surface level of mature (i.e., peptide-loaded) MHC II while increasing levels of immature MHC II, which are functionally incompetent because of their association with the invariant chain. Nef was the only HIV-1 gene product to possess this capacity, which was also observed in the context of the whole HIV-1 genome. Other proteins of the endocytic pathway were not affected by Nef expression, suggesting that Nef effects on MHC II did not result from a general alteration of the endocytic pathway. Response patterns to previously characterized mutations of Nef differed for Nef-induced modulation of mature and immature MHC II. Furthermore, the doses of Nef required to observe each of the two effects were clearly different, suggesting that Nef could affect MHC II peptide presentation through distinct mechanisms. Cooperation between those mechanisms may enable Nef to efficiently inhibit MHC II function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We recently reported that the nonclassical HLA class I molecule HLA-G was expressed in the endomyocardial biopsies and sera of 16% of heart transplant patients studied. The aim of the present report is to identify cells that may be responsible for HLA-G protein expression during the allogeneic reaction. Carrying out mixed lymphocyte cultures in which the responder cell population was depleted either in CD4+ or CD8+ T cells, we found that soluble HLA-G5 protein but not the membrane-bound HLA-G isoform was secreted by allo-specific CD4+ T cells from the responder population, which suppressed the allogeneic proliferative T cell response. This inhibition may be reversed by adding the anti-HLA-G 87G antibody to a mixed lymphocyte culture. That may indicate a previously uncharacterized regulatory mechanism of CD4+ T cell proliferative response.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), the principal signaling receptor for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mammals, requires the binding of MD-2 to its extracellular domain for maximal responsiveness. MD-2 contains a leader sequence but lacks a transmembrane domain, and we asked whether it is secreted into the medium as an active protein. As a source of secreted MD-2 (sMD-2), we used culture supernatants from cells stably transduced with epitope-tagged human MD-2. We show that sMD-2 exists as a heterogeneous collection of large disulfide-linked oligomers formed from stable dimeric subunits and that concentrations of sMD-2 as low as 50 pM enhance the responsiveness of TLR4 reporter cells to LPS. An MD-2-like activity is also released by monocyte-derived dendritic cells from normal donors. When coexpressed, TLR4 indiscriminately associates in the endoplasmic reticulum/cis Golgi with different-sized oligomers of MD-2, and excess MD-2 is secreted into the medium. We conclude that normal and transfected cells secrete a soluble form of MD-2 that binds with high affinity to TLR4 and that could play a role in regulating responses to LPS and other pathogen-derived substances in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) is well recognized for its role in mediating innate immune responses. However, the mechanisms of TNF-α that influence the adaptive immune response to virus infections are not well understood. In this study, we have investigated the role of TNF-α in activating the cellular and humoral responses to systemic viral challenge with recombinant replication-defective adenovirus (rAd). Evaluation of T cell function in TNF-α-deficient (TNFKO) mice revealed impaired virus-specific proliferation of T cells derived from the draining lymph nodes of the liver. Analysis of dendritic cells (DC) isolated from local draining lymph nodes after systemic challenge showed that DC from TNFKO mice were relatively immature compared with those from strain-matched wild-type mice. In vitro, TNF-α was required to mature DC efficiently during virus-mediated stimulation. Adoptive transfer of primed, mature DC into TNFKO mice restored T cell responses and reconstituted anti-adenovirus antibody responses. Thus, TNF-α plays a significant role in the maturation of DC after adenovirus challenge both in vitro and in vivo, highlighting the importance of this innate cytokine in activating adaptive immunity to viral challenge.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The invariant chain (Ii) binds to newly synthesized MHC class II molecules with the CLIP region of Ii occupying the peptide-binding groove. Here we demonstrate that recombinant Ii proteins with the CLIP region replaced by antigenic self-epitopes are highly efficient in activating and silencing specific T cells in vitro and in vivo. The Ii proteins require endogenous processing by antigen-presenting cells for efficient T cell activation. An Ii protein encompassing the epitope myelin basic protein amino acids 84–96 (Ii-MBP84–96) induced the model autoimmune disease experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) with a higher severity and earlier onset than the peptide. When applied in a tolerogenic manner, Ii-MBP84–96 abolished antigen-specific T cell proliferation and suppressed peptide-induced EAE more effectively than peptide alone. Importantly, i.v. administration of Ii proteins after EAE induction completely abrogated the disease, whereas peptides only marginally suppressed disease symptoms. Ii fusion proteins are thus more efficient than peptide in modulating CD4+ T cell-mediated autoimmunity, documenting their superior qualities for therapeutic antigen delivery in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is characterized by cyst formation in the kidney, liver, and pancreas and is associated often with cardiovascular abnormalities such as hypertension, mitral valve prolapse, and intracranial aneurysms. It is caused by mutations in PKD1 or PKD2, encoding polycystin-1 and -2, which together form a cell surface nonselective cation ion channel. Pkd2−/− mice have cysts in the kidney and pancreas and defects in cardiac septation, whereas Pkd1del34 −/− and Pkd1L −/− mice have cysts but no cardiac abnormalities, although vascular fragility was reported in the latter. Here we describe mice carrying a targeted mutation in Pkd1 (Pkd1del17–21βgeo), which defines its expression pattern by using a lacZ reporter gene and may identify novel functions for polycystin-1. Although Pkd1del17–21βgeo +/− adult mice develop renal and hepatic cysts, Pkd1del17–21βgeo −/− embryos die at embryonic days 13.5–14.5 from a primary cardiovascular defect that includes double outflow right ventricle, disorganized myocardium, and abnormal atrio-ventricular septation. Skeletal development is also severely compromised. These abnormalities correlate with the major sites of Pkd1 expression. During nephrogenesis, Pkd1 is expressed in maturing tubular epithelial cells from embryonic day 15.5. This expression coincides with the onset of cyst formation in Pkd1del34 −/−, Pkd1L −/−, and Pkd2−/− mice, supporting the hypothesis that polycystin-1 and polycystin-2 interact in vivo and that their failure to do so leads to abnormalities in tubule morphology and function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The efficacy and safety of an immunoconjugate (icon) molecule, composed of a mutated mouse factor VII (mfVII) targeting domain and the Fc effector domain of an IgG1 Ig (mfVII/Fc icon), was tested with a severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mouse model of human prostatic cancer and an immunocompetent mouse model of mouse prostatic cancer. The SCID mice were first injected s.c. with a human prostatic tumor line, forming a skin tumor that produces a high blood titer of prostate-specific antigen and metastasizes to bone. The icon was encoded in a replication-incompetent adenoviral vector that was injected directly into the skin tumor. The tumor cells infected by the vector synthesize and secrete the icon into the blood, and the blood-borne icon binds with high affinity and specificity to mouse tissue factor expressed on endothelial cells lining the lumen of the tumor vasculature and to human tissue factor expressed on the tumor cells. The Fc domain of the icon activates a cytolytic immune attack against cells that bind the icon. The immunotherapy tests in SCID mice demonstrated that intratumoral injections of the adenoviral vector encoding the mfVII/human Fc icon resulted in long-term regression of the injected human prostatic tumor and also of a distant uninjected tumor, without associated toxicity to the mice. Comparable results were obtained with a SCID mouse model of human melanoma. At the end of the experiments the mice appeared to be free of viable tumor cells. This protocol also could be efficacious for treating cancer patients who have vascularized tumors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Presenilin proteins play critical roles in the proteolytic processing of both Notch and amyloid precursor protein (APP). Presenilin itself undergoes endoproteolytic processing to generate an N-terminal and C-terminal fragment. As demonstrated previously, overexpression of presenilin 1 (PS1) holoprotein does not change the levels of the N-terminal and C-terminal fragments (NTF and CTF). When we coexpress the PS1 NTF and CTF, marked increases in the cellular levels of these fragments are seen. By coexpressing the PS1 NTF and CTF, we demonstrate conclusively that a noncovalent complex of the NTF and CTF is the active species of presenilin. However, although the PS1 NTF/CTF complex is necessary for γ-secretase activity, it is not sufficient. Independent overexpression of the PS1 NTF and CTF was also used to show that the Asp-257 and Asp-385 mutations in PS1 decrease Aβ production by a direct effect on γ-secretase activity and not by the inhibition of PS1 endoproteolysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS-3) is a negative feedback regulator of IFN-γ signaling, shown up-regulated in mouse bone marrow cells by the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and IFN-γ. IL-1β and IFN-γ alone, or potentiated by TNF-α, are cytotoxic to the insulin producing pancreatic β-cells and β-cell lines in vitro and suggested to contribute to the specific β-cell destruction in Type-1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Using a doxycycline-inducible SOCS-3 expression system in the rat β-cell line INS-1, we demonstrate that the toxic effect of both IL-1β or IFN-γ at concentrations that reduced the viability by 50% over 3 days, was fully preventable when SOCS-3 expression was turned on in the cells. At cytokine concentrations or combinations more toxic to the cells, SOCS-3 overexpression yielded a partial protection. Whereas SOCS-3-mediated inhibition of IFN-γ signaling is described in other cell systems, SOCS-3 mediated inhibition of IL-1β signaling has not previously been described. In addition we show that SOCS-3 prevention of IL-1β-induced toxicity is accompanied by inhibited transcription of the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) by 80%, resulting in 60% decreased formation of the toxic nitric oxide (NO). Analysis of isolated native rat islets exposed to IL-1β revealed a naturally occurring but delayed up-regulated SOCS-3 transcription. Influencing SOCS-3 expression thus represents an approach for affecting cytokine-induced signal transduction at a proximal step in the signal cascade, potentially useful in future therapies aimed at reducing the destructive potential of β-cell cytotoxic cytokines in T1DM, as well as other cytokine-dependent diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mechanisms through which luteinizing hormone (LH)-releasing hormone (LHRH) antagonists suppress pituitary gonadotroph functions and LHRH-receptor (LHRH-R) expression are incompletely understood. Consequently, we investigated the direct effect of LHRH antagonist cetrorelix in vitro on the expression of the pituitary LHRH-R gene and its ability to counteract the exogenous LHRH and the agonist triptorelin in the regulation of this gene. We also compared the effects of chronic administration of cetrorelix and triptorelin on the LHRH-R mRNA level and gonadotropin secretion in ovariectomized (OVX) and normal female rats. The exposure of pituitary cells in vitro to 3-min pulses of 1 nM LHRH or 0.1 nM triptorelin for 5 h increased the LHRH-R mRNA level by 77–88%. Continuous perfusion of the cells with 50 nM cetrorelix did not cause any significant changes, but prevented the stimulatory effect of LHRH pulses on the receptor mRNA expression. In OVX rats, 10 days after administration of a depot formulation of cetrorelix, releasing 100 μg of peptide daily, the elevated LHRH-R mRNA level was decreased by 73%, whereas daily injection of 100 μg of triptorelin caused a 41% suppression. In normal female rats, cetrorelix treatment suppressed the LHRH-R mRNA level by 33%, but triptorelin increased it by 150%. The highly elevated serum LH levels in OVX rats and the normal LH concentration of cycling rats were rapidly and completely suppressed by cetrorelix. Triptorelin decreased the serum LH in OVX rats to the precastration level, but had no effect on basal LH in normal rats. Our results confirm that LHRH antagonists, such as cetrorelix, inhibit the gene expression of pituitary LHRH-R indirectly, by counteracting the stimulatory effect of LHRH. A rapid suppression of serum LH by LHRH antagonists would be advantageous in the treatment of sex hormone-dependent tumors and other conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Our objective was to determine whether overexpression and underexpression of human heme oxygenase (HHO)-1 could be controlled on a long-term basis by introduction of the HO-1 gene in sense (S) and antisense (AS) orientation with an appropriate vector into endothelial cells. Retroviral vector (LXSN) containing viral long terminal repeat promoter-driven human HO-1 S (LSN-HHO-1) and LXSN vectors containing HHO-1 promoter (HOP)-controlled HHO-1 S and AS (LSN-HOP-HHO-1 and LSN-HOP-HHO-1-AS) sequences were constructed and used to transfect rat lung microvessel endothelial cells (RLMV cells) and human dermal microvessel endothelial cells (HMEC-1 cells). RLMV cells transduced with HHO-1 S expressed human HO-1 mRNA and HO-1 protein associated with elevation in total HO activity compared with nontransduced cells. Vector-mediated expression of HHO-1 S or AS under control of HOP resulted in effective production of HO-1 or blocked induction of endogenous human HO-1 in HMEC-1 cells, respectively. Overexpression of HO-1 AS was associated with a long-term decrease (45%) of endogenous HO-1 protein and an increase (167%) in unmetabolized exogenous heme in HMEC-1 cells. Carbon monoxide (CO) production in HO-1 S- or AS-transduced HMEC-1 cells after heme treatment was increased (159%) or decreased (50%), respectively, compared with nontransduced cells. HO-2 protein levels did not change. These findings demonstrate that HHO-1 S and AS retroviral constructs are functional in enhancing and reducing HO activity, respectively, and thus can be used to regulate cellular heme levels, the activity of heme-dependent enzymes, and the rate of heme catabolism to CO and bilirubin.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The distribution of aqueous Pb(II) sorbed at the interface between Burkholderia cepacia biofilms and hematite (α-Fe2O3) or corundum (α-Al2O3) surfaces has been probed by using an application of the long-period x-ray standing wave technique. Attached bacteria and adsorbed organic matter may interfere with sorption processes on metal oxide surfaces by changing the characteristics of the electrical double layer at the solid–solution interface, blocking surface sites, or providing a variety of new sites for metal binding. In this work, Pb Lα fluorescence yield profiles for samples equilibrated with 10−7 to 10−3.8 M Pb(II) were measured and modeled to determine quantitatively the partitioning of Pb(II) at the biofilm–metal oxide interface. Our data show that the reactive sites on the metal oxide surfaces were not passivated by the formation of a monolayer biofilm. Instead, high-energy surface sites on the metal oxides form the dominant sink for Pb(II) at submicromolar concentrations, following the trend α-Fe2O3 (0001) > α-Al2O3 (11̄02) > α-Al2O3 (0001), despite the greater site density within the overlying biofilms. At [Pb] > 10−6 M, significant Pb uptake by the biofilms was observed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We recently proposed a dynamic copy-choice model for retroviral recombination in which a steady state between the rates of polymerization and RNA degradation determines the frequency of reverse transcriptase (RT) template switching. The relative contributions of polymerase-dependent and polymerase-independent RNase H activities during reverse transcription and template switching in vivo have not been determined. We developed an in vivo trans-complementation assay in which direct repeat deletion through template switching reconstitutes a functional green fluorescent protein gene in a retroviral vector. Complementation in trans between murine leukemia virus Gag-Pol proteins lacking polymerase and RNase H activities restored viral replication. Because only polymerase-independent RNase H activity is present in this cell line, the relative roles of polymerase-dependent and -independent RNase H activities in template switching could be determined. We also analyzed double mutants possessing polymerase and RNase H mutations that increased and decreased template switching, respectively. The double mutants exhibited low template switching frequency, indicating that the RNase H mutations were dominant. Trans-complementation of the double mutants with polymerase-independent RNase H did not restore the high template switching frequency, indicating that polymerase-dependent RNase H activity was essential for the increased frequency of template switching. Additionally, trans-complementation of RNase H mutants in the presence and absence of hydroxyurea, which slows the rate of reverse transcription, showed that hydroxyurea increased template switching only when polymerase-dependent RNase H activity was present. This is, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of polymerase-dependent RNase H activity in vivo. These results provide strong evidence for a dynamic association between the rates of DNA polymerization and polymerase-dependent RNase H activity, which determines the frequency of in vivo template switching.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Streptomyces avermitilis is a soil bacterium that carries out not only a complex morphological differentiation but also the production of secondary metabolites, one of which, avermectin, is commercially important in human and veterinary medicine. The major interest in this genus Streptomyces is the diversity of its production of secondary metabolites as an industrial microorganism. A major factor in its prominence as a producer of the variety of secondary metabolites is its possession of several metabolic pathways for biosynthesis. Here we report sequence analysis of S. avermitilis, covering 99% of its genome. At least 8.7 million base pairs exist in the linear chromosome; this is the largest bacterial genome sequence, and it provides insights into the intrinsic diversity of the production of the secondary metabolites of Streptomyces. Twenty-five kinds of secondary metabolite gene clusters were found in the genome of S. avermitilis. Four of them are concerned with the biosyntheses of melanin pigments, in which two clusters encode tyrosinase and its cofactor, another two encode an ochronotic pigment derived from homogentiginic acid, and another polyketide-derived melanin. The gene clusters for carotenoid and siderophore biosyntheses are composed of seven and five genes, respectively. There are eight kinds of gene clusters for type-I polyketide compound biosyntheses, and two clusters are involved in the biosyntheses of type-II polyketide-derived compounds. Furthermore, a polyketide synthase that resembles phloroglucinol synthase was detected. Eight clusters are involved in the biosyntheses of peptide compounds that are synthesized by nonribosomal peptide synthetases. These secondary metabolite clusters are widely located in the genome but half of them are near both ends of the genome. The total length of these clusters occupies about 6.4% of the genome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most facultative intracellular bacteria replicate in specialized phagosomes after being taken up by mammalian cells. Relatively few intracellular bacteria escape the phagosomal compartment with the help of cytolytic (pore-forming) proteins and replicate in the host cell cytosol. Without such toxins, intracellular bacteria cannot reach this cellular compartment. To circumvent the requirement of an “escape” step, we developed a procedure allowing the efficient direct injection of bacteria into the cytosol of mammalian cells. With this technique, we show that most bacteria, including extracellular bacteria and intracellular pathogens that normally reside in a vacuole, are unable to replicate in the cytosol of the mammalian cells. In contrast, microorganisms that replicate in the cytosol, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Shigella flexneri, and, to some extent, enteroinvasive Escherichia coli, are able to multiply in this cellular compartment after microinjection. Further L. monocytogenes with deletion in its PrfA-regulated hpt gene was found to be impaired in replication when injected into the cytosol. Complementation of the hpt mutation with a plasmid carrying the wild-type hpt gene restored the replication ability in the cytosol. These data indicate that cytosolic intracellular pathogens have evolved specific mechanisms to grow in this compartment of mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Excessive activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) leads to NAD+ depletion and cell death during ischemia and other conditions that generate extensive DNA damage. When activated by DNA strand breaks, PARP1 uses NAD+ as substrate to form ADP-ribose polymers on specific acceptor proteins. These polymers are in turn rapidly degraded by poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG), a ubiquitously expressed exo- and endoglycohydrolase. In this study, we examined the role of PARG in the PARP1-mediated cell death pathway. Mouse neuron and astrocyte cultures were exposed to hydrogen peroxide, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), or the DNA alkylating agent, N-methyl-N′-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). Cell death in each condition was markedly reduced by the PARP1 inhibitor benzamide and equally reduced by the PARG inhibitors gallotannin and nobotanin B. The PARP1 inhibitor benzamide and the PARG inhibitor gallotannin both prevented the NAD+ depletion that otherwise results from PARP1 activation by MNNG or H2O2. However, these agents had opposite effects on protein poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. Immunostaining for poly(ADP-ribose) on Western blots and neuron cultures showed benzamide to decrease and gallotannin to increase poly(ADP-ribose) accumulation during MNNG exposure. These results suggest that PARG inhibitors do not inhibit PARP1 directly, but instead prevent PARP1-mediated cell death by slowing the turnover of poly(ADP-ribose) and thus slowing NAD+ consumption. PARG appears to be a necessary component of the PARP-mediated cell death pathway, and PARG inhibitors may have promise as neuroprotective agents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptor (SNARE)-mediated fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic-plasma membrane is essential for communication between neurons. Disassembly of the SNARE complex requires the ATPase N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF). To determine where in the synaptic-vesicle cycle NSF functions, we have undertaken a genetic analysis of comatose (dNSF-1) in Drosophila. Characterization of 16 comatose mutations demonstrates that NSF mediates disassembly of SNARE complexes after synaptic-vesicle fusion. Hypomorphic mutations in NSF cause temperature-sensitive paralysis, whereas null mutations result in lethality. Genetic-interaction studies with para demonstrate that blocking evoked fusion delays the accumulation of assembled SNARE complexes and behavioral paralysis that normally occurs in comatose mutants, indicating NSF activity is not required in the absence of vesicle fusion. In addition, the entire vesicle pool can be depleted in shibire comatose double mutants, demonstrating that NSF activity is not required for the fusion step itself. Multiple rounds of vesicle fusion in the absence of NSF activity poisons neurotransmission by trapping SNAREs into cis-complexes. These data indicate that NSF normally dissociates and recycles SNARE proteins during the interval between exocytosis and endocytosis. In the absence of NSF activity, there are sufficient fusion-competent SNAREs to exocytose both the readily released and the reserve pool of synaptic vesicles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Visual stimuli that are frequently seen together become associated in long-term memory, such that the sight of one stimulus readily brings to mind the thought or image of the other. It has been hypothesized that acquisition of such long-term associative memories proceeds via the strengthening of connections between neurons representing the associated stimuli, such that a neuron initially responding only to one stimulus of an associated pair eventually comes to respond to both. Consistent with this hypothesis, studies have demonstrated that individual neurons in the primate inferior temporal cortex tend to exhibit similar responses to pairs of visual stimuli that have become behaviorally associated. In the present study, we investigated the role of these areas in the formation of conditional visual associations by monitoring the responses of individual neurons during the learning of new stimulus pairs. We found that many neurons in both area TE and perirhinal cortex came to elicit more similar neuronal responses to paired stimuli as learning proceeded. Moreover, these neuronal response changes were learning-dependent and proceeded with an average time course that paralleled learning. This experience-dependent plasticity of sensory representations in the cerebral cortex may underlie the learning of associations between objects.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are associated with the cerebral accumulation of β-amyloid and α-synuclein, respectively. Some patients have clinical and pathological features of both diseases, raising the possibility of overlapping pathogenetic pathways. We generated transgenic (tg) mice with neuronal expression of human β-amyloid peptides, α-synuclein, or both. The functional and morphological alterations in doubly tg mice resembled the Lewy-body variant of Alzheimer's disease. These mice had severe deficits in learning and memory, developed motor deficits before α-synuclein singly tg mice, and showed prominent age-dependent degeneration of cholinergic neurons and presynaptic terminals. They also had more α-synuclein-immunoreactive neuronal inclusions than α-synuclein singly tg mice. Ultrastructurally, some of these inclusions were fibrillar in doubly tg mice, whereas all inclusions were amorphous in α-synuclein singly tg mice. β-Amyloid peptides promoted aggregation of α-synuclein in a cell-free system and intraneuronal accumulation of α-synuclein in cell culture. β-Amyloid peptides may contribute to the development of Lewy-body diseases by promoting the aggregation of α-synuclein and exacerbating α-synuclein-dependent neuronal pathologies. Therefore, treatments that block the production or accumulation of β-amyloid peptides could benefit a broader spectrum of disorders than previously anticipated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evidence that protein synthesis inhibitors induce amnesia in a variety of species and learning paradigms indicates that the consolidation of newly acquired information into stable memories requires the synthesis of new proteins. Because extinction of a response also requires acquisition of new information, extinction, like original learning, would be expected to require protein synthesis. The present experiments examined the involvement of protein synthesis in the hippocampus in the extinction of a learned fear-based response known to involve the hippocampus. Rats were trained in a one-trial inhibitory avoidance task in which they received footshock after stepping from a small platform to a grid floor. They were then given daily retention tests without footshock. The inhibitory response (e.g., remaining on the platform) gradually extinguished with repeated testing over several days. Footshock administered in a different context, instead of a retention test, prevented the extinction. Infusions of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin (80 μg) into the CA1 region of the hippocampus (bilaterally) 10 min before inhibitory avoidance training impaired retention on all subsequent tests. Anisomycin infused into the hippocampus immediately after the 1st retention test blocked extinction of the response. Infusions administered before the 1st retention test induced a temporary (i.e., 1 day) reduction in retention performance and blocked subsequent extinction. These findings are consistent with other evidence that anisomycin blocks both the consolidation of original learning and extinction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report experiments combining assessment of spatial tactile discrimination behavior and measurements of somatosensory-evoked potentials in human subjects before and after short-term plastic changes to demonstrate a causal link between the degree of altered performance and reorganization. Plastic changes were induced by a Hebbian coactivation protocol of simultaneous pairing of tactile stimuli. As a result of coactivation, spatial discrimination thresholds were lowered; however, the amount of discrimination improvement was variable across subjects. Analysis of somatosensory-evoked potentials revealed a significant, but also variable shift in the localization of the N20-dipole of the index finger that was coactivated. The Euclidean distance between the dipole pre- and post-coactivation was significantly larger on the coactivated side (mean 9.13 ± 3.4 mm) than on the control side (mean 4.90 ± 2.7 mm, P = 0.008). Changes of polar angles indicated a lateral and inferior shift on the postcentral gyrus of the left hemisphere representing the coactivated index finger. To explore how far the variability of improvement was reflected in the degree of reorganization, we correlated the perceptual changes with the N20-dipole shifts. We found that the changes in discrimination abilities could be predicted from the changes in dipole localization. Little gain in spatial discrimination was associated with small changes in dipole shifts. In contrast, subjects who showed a large cortical reorganization also had lowest thresholds. All changes were highly selective as no transfer to the index finger of the opposite, non-coactivated hand was found. Our results indicate that human spatial discrimination performance is subject to improvement on a short time scale by a Hebbian stimulation protocol without invoking training, attention, or reinforcement. Plastic processes related to the improvement were localized in primary somatosensory cortex and were scaled with the degree of the individual perceptual improvement.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neural receptive fields are plastic: with experience, neurons in many brain regions change their spiking responses to relevant stimuli. Analysis of receptive field plasticity from experimental measurements is crucial for understanding how neural systems adapt their representations of relevant biological information. Current analysis methods using histogram estimates of spike rate functions in nonoverlapping temporal windows do not track the evolution of receptive field plasticity on a fine time scale. Adaptive signal processing is an established engineering paradigm for estimating time-varying system parameters from experimental measurements. We present an adaptive filter algorithm for tracking neural receptive field plasticity based on point process models of spike train activity. We derive an instantaneous steepest descent algorithm by using as the criterion function the instantaneous log likelihood of a point process spike train model. We apply the point process adaptive filter algorithm in a study of spatial (place) receptive field properties of simulated and actual spike train data from rat CA1 hippocampal neurons. A stability analysis of the algorithm is sketched in the Appendix. The adaptive algorithm can update the place field parameter estimates on a millisecond time scale. It reliably tracked the migration, changes in scale, and changes in maximum firing rate characteristic of hippocampal place fields in a rat running on a linear track. Point process adaptive filtering offers an analytic method for studying the dynamics of neural receptive fields.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Interpretations of steroid hormone actions as slow, nuclear, transcriptional events have frequently been seen as competing against inferences of rapid membrane actions. We have discovered conditions where membrane-limited effects potentiate later transcriptional actions in a nerve cell line. Making use of a two-pulse hormonal schedule in a transfection system, early and brief administration of conjugated, membrane-limited estradiol was necessary but not sufficient for full transcriptional potency of the second estrogen pulse. Efficacy of the first pulse depended on intact signal transduction pathways. Surprisingly, the actions of both pulses were blocked by a classical estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist. Thus, two different modes of steroid hormone action can synergize.
DOC DONE!Abstract
KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 are two homologous K+ channel subunits that can combine to form heterotetrameric channels with properties of neuronal M channels. Loss-of-function mutations in either subunit can lead to benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNC), a generalized, idiopathic epilepsy of the newborn. We now describe a syndrome in which BFNC is followed later in life by myokymia, involuntary contractions of skeletal muscles. All affected members of the myokymia/BFNC family carried a mutation (R207W) that neutralized a charged amino acid in the S4 voltage-sensor segment of KCNQ2. This substitution led to a shift of voltage-dependent activation of KCNQ2 and a dramatic slowing of activation upon depolarization. Myokymia is thought to result from hyperexcitability of the lower motoneuron, and indeed both KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 mRNAs were detected in the anterior horn of the spinal cord where the cells of the lower motoneurons arise. We propose that a difference in firing patterns between motoneurons and central neurons, combined with the drastically slowed voltage activation of the R207W mutant, explains why this particular KCNQ2 mutant causes myokymia in addition to BFNC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estrogens are powerful modulators of neuronal physiology and in humans may affect a broad range of functions, including reproductive, emotional, and cognitive behaviors. We studied the contribution of estrogen receptors (ERs) in modulation of emotional processes and analyzed the effects of deleting ERα or ERβ in mice. Behavior consistent with increased anxiety was observed principally in ERβ mutant females and was associated with a reduced threshold for the induction of synaptic plasticity in the basolateral amygdala. Local increase of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1a receptor expression in medial amygdala may contribute to these changes. Our data show that, particularly in females, there is an important role for ERβ-mediated estrogen signaling in the processing of emotional behavior.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stress-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP) p38 is activated in various forms of heart failure, yet its effects on the intact heart remain to be established. Targeted activation of p38 MAP kinase in ventricular myocytes was achieved in vivo by using a gene-switch transgenic strategy with activated mutants of upstream kinases MKK3bE and MKK6bE. Transgene expression resulted in significant induction of p38 kinase activity and premature death at 7–9 weeks. Both groups of transgenic hearts exhibited marked interstitial fibrosis and expression of fetal marker genes characteristic of cardiac failure, but no significant hypertrophy at the organ level. Echocardiographic and pressure-volume analyses revealed a similar extent of systolic contractile depression and restrictive diastolic abnormalities related to markedly increased passive chamber stiffness. However, MKK3bE-expressing hearts had increased end-systolic chamber volumes and a thinned ventricular wall, associated with heterogeneous myocyte atrophy, whereas MKK6bE hearts had reduced end-diastolic ventricular cavity size, a modest increase in myocyte size, and no significant myocyte atrophy. These data provide in vivo evidence for a negative inotropic and restrictive diastolic effect from p38 MAP kinase activation in ventricular myocytes and reveal specific roles of p38 pathway in the development of ventricular end-systolic remodeling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Light controls the translation of several mRNAs in fully developed chloroplasts via at least two regulatory pathways. In the first, the light signal is transduced as a thiol-mediated signal that modulates translation in parallel to light intensity. The second light-controlled pathway, termed priming, is a prerequisite to the thiol-mediated regulatory pathway. Light regulation is rapid and requires intrachloroplast photoreceptor(s). To delineate the signaling pathways controlling each of these regulatory events, we assayed the effect of photosynthetic inhibitors and electron donors on the translation of chloroplastic psbA mRNA. We show that the thiol-mediated signal is generated by photosystem I and transduced by vicinal dithiol-containing proteins. We also found that the priming signal probably initiates on reduction of plastoquinone. These findings suggest that translation of chloroplast psbA mRNA is controlled by both linear photosynthetic electron transport, exerted by the reduction of the ferredoxin–thioredoxin system, and the relative activities of photosystems I and II, signaled by the redox state of the plastoquinone pool. These data underscore the function of the light-capturing reactions of photosynthesis as chloroplast photoreceptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We recently isolated the AtBI-1 (Arabidopsis Bax Inhibitor-1) gene, the expression of which suppressed Bax-induced cell death in yeast. To determine whether the same is true in the plant system, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing Bax protein under a dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible promoter were generated. On DEX treatment, such transgenic plants exhibited marked cell death at the whole-plant level, cell shrinkage, membranous destruction, and other apoptotic phenotypes. Transgenic Bax plants were retransformed with a vector containing the AtBI-1 gene (tagged with green fluorescent protein) under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Plants expressing both Bax and AtBI-1 were able to maintain growth on DEX-treatment by sustaining intracellular integrity. Thus, we present here direct genetic evidence that the plant antiapoptotic protein AtBI-1 is biologically active in suppressing the mammalian Bax action in planta.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The extent to which sound identification and sound localization depend on specialized auditory pathways was examined by using functional magnetic resonance imaging and event-related brain potentials. Participants performed an S1–S2 match-to-sample task in which S1 differed from S2 in its pitch and/or location. In the pitch task, participants indicated whether S2 was lower, identical, or higher in pitch than S1. In the location task, participants were asked to localize S2 relative to S1 (i.e., leftward, same, or rightward). Relative to location, pitch processing generated greater activation in auditory cortex and the inferior frontal gyrus. Conversely, identifying the location of S2 relative to S1 generated greater activation in posterior temporal cortex, parietal cortex, and the superior frontal sulcus. Differential task-related effects on event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were seen in anterior and posterior brain regions beginning at 300 ms poststimulus and lasting for several hundred milliseconds. The converging evidence from two independent measurements of dissociable brain activity during identification and localization of identical stimuli provides strong support for specialized auditory streams in the human brain. These findings are analogous to the “what” and “where” segregation of visual information processing, and suggest that a similar functional organization exists for processing information from the auditory modality.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Early patterning of the body during animal development is a fundamental process to subsequent events including cell differentiation, tissue and organ formation, and correct function of the adult body. We focused on two major topics: body segmentation and brain patterning, both of which are essential for conferring a functional complexity to the body, repetition of skeletal elements and complex neural network, respectively.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent studies of visual perception have begun to reveal the connection between neuronal activity in the brain and conscious visual experience. Transcranial magnetic stimulation of the human occipital lobe disrupts the normal perception of objects in ways suggesting that important aspects of visual perception are based on activity in early visual cortical areas. Recordings made with microelectrodes in animals suggest that the perception of the lightness and depth of visual surfaces develops through computations performed across multiple brain areas. Activity in earlier areas is more tightly correlated with the physical properties of objects whereas neurons in later areas respond in a manner more similar to visual perception.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Over the last two decades, there has come about a recognition that chaotic dynamics is pervasive in the solar system. We now understand that the orbits of small members of the solar system—asteroids, comets, and interplanetary dust—are chaotic and undergo large changes on geological time scales. Are the major planets' orbits also chaotic? The answer is not straightforward, and the subtleties have prompted new questions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Multiscale computing (MSC) involves the computation, manipulation, and analysis of information at different resolution levels. Widespread use of MSC algorithms and the discovery of important relationships between different approaches to implementation were catalyzed, in part, by the recent interest in wavelets. We present two examples that demonstrate how MSC can help scientists understand complex data. The first is from acoustical signal processing and the second is from computer graphics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An equilibrium statistical theory of coherent structures is applied to midlatitude bands in the northern and southern hemispheres of Jupiter. The theory imposes energy and circulation constraints on the large-scale motion and uses a prior distribution on potential vorticity fluctuations to parameterize the small-scale turbulent eddies. Nonlinearly stable coherent structures are computed by solving the constrained maximum entropy principle governing the equilibrium states of the statistical theory. The theoretical predictions are consistent with the observed large-scale features of the weather layer if and only if the prior distribution has anticyclonic skewness, meaning that intense anticyclones predominate at small scales. Then the computations show that anticyclonic vortices emerge at the latitudes of the Great Red Spot and the White Ovals in the southern band, whereas in the northern band no vortices form within the zonal jets. Recent observational data from the Galileo mission support the occurrence of intense small-scale anticyclonic forcing. The results suggest the possibility of using equilibrium statistical theory for inverse modeling of the small-scale characteristics of the Jovian atmosphere from observed features.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We show that theoretical microscopic titration curves (THEMATICS) can be used to identify active-site residues in proteins of known structure. Results are featured for three enzymes: triosephosphate isomerase (TIM), aldose reductase (AR), and phosphomannose isomerase (PMI). We note that TIM and AR have similar structures but catalyze different kinds of reactions, whereas TIM and PMI have different structures but catalyze similar reactions. Analysis of the theoretical microscopic titration curves for all of the ionizable residues of these proteins shows that a small fraction (3–7%) of the curves possess a flat region where the residue is partially protonated over a wide pH range. The preponderance of residues with such perturbed curves occur in the active site. Additional results are given in summary form to show the success of the method for proteins with a variety of different chemistries and structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A new global optimization method, Conformation-family Monte Carlo, has been developed recently for searching the conformational space of macromolecules. In the present paper, we adapted this method for prediction of crystal structures of organic molecules without assuming any symmetry constraints except the number of molecules in the unit cell. This method maintains a database of low energy structures that are clustered into families. The structures in this database are improved iteratively by a Metropolis-type Monte Carlo procedure together with energy minimization, in which the search is biased toward the regions of the lowest energy families. The Conformation-family Monte Carlo method is applied to a set of nine rigid and flexible organic molecules by using two popular force fields, AMBER and W99. The method performed well for the rigid molecules and reasonably well for the molecules with torsional degrees of freedom.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Declines in habitat and wildlife in semiarid African savannas are widely reported and commonly attributed to agropastoral population growth, livestock impacts, and subsistence cultivation. However, extreme annual and shorter-term variability of rainfall, primary production, vegetation, and populations of grazers make directional trends and causal chains hard to establish in these ecosystems. Here two decades of changes in land cover and wildebeest in the Serengeti-Mara region of East Africa are analyzed in terms of potential drivers (rainfall, human and livestock population growth, socio-economic trends, land tenure, agricultural policies, and markets). The natural experiment research design controls for confounding variables, and our conceptual model and statistical approach integrate natural and social sciences data. The Kenyan part of the ecosystem shows rapid land-cover change and drastic decline for a wide range of wildlife species, but these changes are absent on the Tanzanian side. Temporal climate trends, human population density and growth rates, uptake of small-holder agriculture, and livestock population trends do not differ between the Kenyan and Tanzanian parts of the ecosystem and cannot account for observed changes. Differences in private versus state/communal land tenure, agricultural policy, and market conditions suggest, and spatial correlations confirm, that the major changes in land cover and dominant grazer species numbers are driven primarily by private landowners responding to market opportunities for mechanized agriculture, less by agropastoral population growth, cattle numbers, or small-holder land use.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A foundational assumption in economics is that people are rational: they choose optimal plans of action given their predictions about future states of the world. In games of strategy this means that each player's strategy should be optimal given his or her prediction of the opponents' strategies. We demonstrate that there is an inherent tension between rationality and prediction when players are uncertain about their opponents' payoff functions. Specifically, there are games in which it is impossible for perfectly rational players to learn to predict the future behavior of their opponents (even approximately) no matter what learning rule they use. The reason is that in trying to predict the next-period behavior of an opponent, a rational player must take an action this period that the opponent can observe. This observation may cause the opponent to alter his next-period behavior, thus invalidating the first player's prediction. The resulting feedback loop has the property that, a positive fraction of the time, the predicted probability of some action next period differs substantially from the actual probability with which the action is going to occur. We conclude that there are strategic situations in which it is impossible in principle for perfectly rational agents to learn to predict the future behavior of other perfectly rational agents based solely on their observed actions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By using blocked and rapid event-related functional MRI studies of memory, we explored the implications of using rest periods as a baseline condition in functional MRI studies. Activity in the medial temporal lobe (as well as in other brain regions) was substantially higher during rest than during several alternative baseline conditions. The effect of this elevated activity during rest was to reduce, eliminate, or even reverse the sign of the activity during task conditions relevant to memory functions. The results demonstrate that periods of rest are associated with significant cognitive activity and, therefore, provide a nonoptimal baseline for memory tasks. These results were observed not only when relatively long blocks of rest were used (experiment 1), but also when rest consisted of the short null trials typically used in rapid event-related designs (experiment 2). The findings have important implications for the design and interpretation of a wide range of fMRI studies of cognition.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The PHOT1 (NPH1) gene from Avena sativa specifies the blue light receptor for phototropism, phototropin, which comprises two FMN-binding LOV domains and a serine/threonine protein kinase domain. Light exposure is conducive to autophosphorylation of the protein kinase domain. We have reconstituted a recombinant LOV2 domain of A. sativa phototropin with various 13C/15N-labeled isotopomers of the cofactor, FMN. The reconstituted protein samples were analyzed by NMR spectroscopy under dark and light conditions. Blue light irradiation is shown to result in the addition of a thiol group (cysteine 450) to the 4a position of the FMN chromophore. The adduct reverts spontaneously in the dark by elimination. The light-driven flavin adduct formation results in conformational modification, which was diagnosed by 1H and 31P NMR spectroscopy. This conformational change is proposed to initiate the transmission of the light signal via conformational modulation of the protein kinase domain conducive to autophosphorylation of NPH1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
J3-crystallin, one of the three major eye-lens proteins of the cubomedusan jellyfish (Tripedalia cystophora), shows similarity to vertebrate saposins, which are multifunctional proteins that bridge lysosomal hydrolases to lipids and activate enzyme activity. Sequence alignment of deduced J3-crystallin indicates two saposin-like motifs arranged in tandem, each containing six cysteines characteristic of this protein family. The J3-crystallin cDNA encodes a putative precursor analogous to vertebrate prosaposins. The J3-crystallin gene has seven exons, with exons 2–4 encoding the protein. Exon 3 encodes a circularly permutated saposin motif, called a swaposin, found in plant aspartic proteases. J3-crystallin RNA was found in the cubomedusan lens, statocyst, in bands radiating from the pigmented region of the ocellus, in the tentacle tip by in situ hybridization, and in the embryo and larva by reverse transcription–PCR. Our data suggest a crystallin role for the multifunctional saposin protein family in the jellyfish lens. This finding extends the gene sharing evolutionary strategy for lens crystallins to the cnidarians and indicates that the putative primordial saposin/swaposin J3-crystallin reflects both the chaperone and enzyme connections of the vertebrate crystallins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Telomeres provide stability to eukaryotic chromosomes and consist of tandem DNA repeat sequences. Telomeric repeats are synthesized and maintained by a specialized reverse transcriptase, termed telomerase. Tetrahymena thermophila telomerase contains two essential components: Tetrahymena telomerase reverse transcriptase (tTERT), the catalytic protein component, and telomerase RNA that provides the template for telomere repeat synthesis. In addition to these two components, two proteins, p80 and p95, were previously found to copurify with telomerase activity and to interact with tTERT and telomerase RNA. To investigate the role of p80 and p95 in the telomerase enzyme, we tested the interaction of p80, p95, and tTERT in several different recombinant expression systems and in Tetrahymena extracts. Immunoprecipitation of recombinant proteins showed that although p80 and p95 associated with each other, they did not associate with tTERT. In in vitro transcription and translation lysates, tTERT was associated with telomerase activity, but p80 and p95 were not. p80 bound telomerase RNA as well as several other unrelated RNAs, suggesting p80 has a general affinity for RNA. Immunoprecipitations from Tetrahymena extracts also showed no evidence for an interaction between the core tTERT/telomerase RNA complex and the p80 and p95 proteins. These data suggest that p80 and p95 are not associated with the bulk of active telomerase in Tetrahymena.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RNA loops that adopt a characteristic GNRA “tetraloop” fold are common in natural RNAs. Here, we have used in vitro selection by means of mRNA-peptide fusions to select peptides that bind an example of this RNA loop motif. Starting with the RNA recognition domain from the λ N protein, we have constructed libraries containing 150, 1,600, and 9 trillion different peptide sequences as mRNA-peptide fusions and isolated those capable of high-affinity RNA binding. These selections have resulted in more than 80 different peptides that bind the same RNA loop. The highest affinity peptides exhibit low nanomolar dissociation constants as well as the ability to discriminate RNA hairpins differing by a single loop nucleotide. Thus, our work demonstrates that numerous, chemically distinct solutions exist for a particular RNA recognition problem.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Full-term pregnancy early in reproductive life is protective against breast cancer in women. Pregnancy also provides protection in animals against carcinogen-induced breast cancer, and this protection can be mimicked by using the hormones estrogen and progesterone. The molecular mechanisms that form the basis for this protective effect have not been elucidated. On the basis of our results, we propose a cell-fate hypothesis. At a critical period in adolescence the hormonal milieu of pregnancy affects the developmental fate of a subset of mammary epithelial cells and its progeny, which results in persistent differences in molecular pathways between the epithelial cells of hormone-treated and mature virgin mammary glands. These changes in turn dictate the proliferative response to carcinogen challenge and include a block in carcinogen-induced increase in mammary epithelial cell proliferation and an increased and sustained expression of nuclear p53 in the hormone-treated mammary gland. This hormone-induced nuclear p53 is transcriptionally active as evidenced by increased expression of mdm2 and p21 (CIP1/WAF1). Importantly, exposure to perphenazine, a compound that induces mammary gland differentiation but does not confer protection, does not induce p53 expression, indicating that p53 is not a differentiation marker. The proliferative block and induction of p53 are operative in both rats and mice, results that support the generality of the proposed hypothesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
White adipose tissue plays an integral role in energy metabolism and is governed by endocrine, autocrine, and neural signals. Neural control of adipose metabolism is mediated by sympathetic neurons that innervate the tissue. To investigate the effects of this innervation, an ex vivo system was developed in which 3T3-L1 adipocytes are cocultured with sympathetic neurons isolated from the superior cervical ganglia of newborn rats. In coculture, both adipocytes and neurons exhibit appropriate morphology, express cell-type-specific markers, and modulate key metabolic processes in one another. Lipolysis (stimulated by β-adrenergic agents) and leptin secretion by adipocytes are down-regulated by neurons in coculture, effects apparently mediated by neuropeptide Y (NPY). Secretion of NPY by neurons is up-regulated dramatically by the presence of adipocytes in coculture and appears to be mediated by an adipocyte-derived soluble factor. Insulin, an antilipolytic agent, down-regulates NPY secretion. Our findings suggest that an adipocyte-derived factor(s) up-regulates the secretion of NPY by sympathetic neurons, which, in turn, attenuates lipolytic energy mobilization by adipocytes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We investigated intracellular trafficking of GM1 ganglioside in Niemann–Pick C1 (NPC1)-deficient Chinese hamster ovary cells [NPC1(−) cells] by using cholera toxin (CT) as a probe. Both the holotoxin and the B subunit (CTB) accumulated in GM1-enriched intracellular vesicles of NPC1(−) cells. CTB-labeled vesicles contained the early endosome marker Rab5 but not lysosome-associated membrane protein 2 and were not labeled with either Texas red–transferrin or Lysotracker, indicating that they represent early endosomes. Similarly, CT accumulated in intracellular vesicles of human NPC fibroblasts that contained both Rab5 and early endosomal antigen 1. CTB accumulation in NPC1(−) cells was abolished by expression of wild-type NPC1 but not by mutant proteins with a mutation either in the NPC domain or the sterol-sensing domain. A part of these mutant NPC1 proteins expressed in NPC1(−) cells was localized on CTB-labeled vesicles. U18666A treatment of “knock in” cells [NPC1(−) cells that stably expressed wild-type NPC1] caused CTB accumulation similar to that in NPC1(−) cells, and a part of wild-type NPC1was localized on CTB-labeled vesicles in drug-treated cells. Finally, CT tracer experiments in NPC1(−) cells revealed retarded excretion of internalized toxin into the culture medium and an increase in the intracellular release of A subunits. In accordance with the latter result, CT was more effective in stimulating cAMP formation in NPC1(−) than in wild-type cells. These results suggest that transport of CT/GM1 complexes from the early endosome to the plasma membrane depends on the function of NPC1, whereas transport to the Golgi apparatus/endoplasmic reticulum does not.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The vacuolar (H+)-ATPases (V-ATPases) are ATP-dependent proton pumps that acidify intracellular compartments and pump protons across specialized plasma membranes. Proton translocation occurs through the integral V0 domain, which contains five different subunits (a, d, c, c′, and c"). Proton transport is critically dependent on buried acidic residues present in three different proteolipid subunits (c, c′, and c"). Mutations in the 100-kDa subunit a have also influenced activity, but none of these residues has proven to be required absolutely for proton transport. On the basis of previous observations on the F-ATPases, we have investigated the role of two highly conserved arginine residues present in the last two putative transmembrane segments of the yeast V-ATPase a subunit (Vph1p). Substitution of Asn, Glu, or Gln for Arg-735 in TM8 gives a V-ATPase that is fully assembled but is totally devoid of proton transport and ATPase activity. Replacement of Arg-735 by Lys gives a V-ATPase that, although completely inactive for proton transport, retains 24% of wild-type ATPase activity, suggesting a partial uncoupling of proton transport and ATP hydrolysis in this mutant. By contrast, nonconservative mutations of Arg-799 in TM9 lead to both defective assembly of the V-ATPase complex and decreases in activity of the assembled V-ATPase. These results suggest that Arg-735 is absolutely required for proton transport by the V-ATPases and is discussed in the context of a revised model of the topology of the 100-kDa subunit a.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Orphan receptors for whom cognate ligands have not yet been identified form a large subclass within the nuclear receptor superfamily. To address one aspect of how they might regulate transcription, we analyzed the mode of interaction between the Drosophila orphan receptor FTZ-F1 (NR5A3) and a segmentation gene product Fushi tarazu (FTZ). Strong interaction between these two factors was detected by use of the mammalian one- and two-hybrid interaction assays without addition of ligand. This interaction required the AF-2 core and putative ligand-binding domain of FTZ-F1 and the LXXLL motif of FTZ. The requirement of these elements was further confirmed by examination of their target gene expression in Drosophila embryos and observation of a cuticle phenotype in transgenic fly lines that express mutated factors. In Drosophila cultured cells, FTZ is required for FTZ-F1 activation of a FTZ-F1 reporter gene. These results reveal a resemblance in the mode of interaction between FTZ-F1 and FTZ and that of nuclear receptor-coactivator and indicate that direct interaction is required for regulation of gene expression by FTZ-F1. Thus, we propose that FTZ may represent a category of LXXLL motif-dependent coactivators for nuclear receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Deamidation of asparaginyl and glutaminyl residues causes time-dependent changes in charge and conformation of peptides and proteins. Quantitative and experimentally verified predictive calculations of the deamidation rates of 1,371 asparaginyl residues in a representative collection of 126 human proteins have been performed. These rates suggest that deamidation is a biologically relevant phenomenon in a remarkably large percentage of human proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pierisin-1 is a potent apoptosis-inducing protein derived from the cabbage butterfly, Pieris rapae. It has been shown that pierisin-1 has an A⋅B structure–function organization like cholera or diphtheria toxin, where the “A” domain (N-terminal) exhibits ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. The present studies were designed to identify the target molecule for ADP-ribosylation by pierisin-1 in the presence of β-[adenylate-32P]NAD, and we found DNA as the acceptor, but not protein as is the case with other bacteria-derived ADP-ribosylating toxins. ADP-ribosylation of tRNAs from yeast was also catalyzed by pierisin-1, but the efficiency was around  of that for calf thymus DNA. Pierisin-1 efficiently catalyzed the ADP-ribosylation of double-stranded DNA containing dG⋅dC, but not dA⋅dT pairs. The ADP-ribose moiety of NAD was transferred to the amino group at N2 of 2′-deoxyguanosine to yield N2-(α-ADP-ribos-1-yl)-2′-deoxyguanosine and its β form, which were determined by several spectral analyses including 1H- and 13C-NMR and mass spectrometry. The chemical structures were also ascertained by the independent synthesis of N2-(D-ribos-1-yl)-2′-deoxyguanosine, which is the characteristic moiety of ADP-ribosylated dG. Using the 32P-postlabeling method, ADP-ribosylated dG could be detected in DNA from pierisin-1-treated HeLa cells, in which apoptosis was easily induced. Thus, the targets for ADP-ribosylation by pierisin-1 were concluded to be 2′-deoxyguanosine residues in DNA. This finding may open a new field regarding the biological significance of ADP-ribosylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cytochromes P450 play key roles in drug metabolism and disease by oxidizing a wide variety of natural and xenobiotic compounds. High-resolution crystal structures of P450cam bound to ruthenium sensitizer-linked substrates reveal an open conformation of the enzyme that allows substrates to access the active center via a 22-Å deep channel. Interactions of alkyl and fluorinated biphenyl linkers with the channel demonstrate the importance of exploiting protein dynamics for specific inhibitor design. Large changes in peripheral enzyme structure (F and G helices) couple to conformational changes in active center residues (I helix) implicated in proton pumping and dioxygen activation. Common conformational states among P450cam and homologous enzymes indicate that static and dynamic variability in the F/G helix region allows the 54 human P450s to oxidize thousands of substrates.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Employing a cell-free chromatin transcription system that recapitulates progesterone receptor (PR)-mediated transcription in vivo, we have investigated further the coactivator functions of steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) in terms of its functional domains as well as cooperation with other coactivators in PR transactivation. By analyzing wild-type and mutant SRC-1 with liganded PR in the chromatin transcription system in vitro, the basic helix–loop–helix/Per-Arnt-Sim domain, the p300-binding domain, and the carboxyl-terminal region (containing the PR-binding site) of SRC-1 were shown to be important for PR transactivation. Although in context of a synthetic promoter its histone acetyltransferase activity was nonessential for PR-mediated transcription, SRC-1 was observed to act synergistically with p300 to enhance PR transactivation from chromatin. Moreover, SRC-1 and p300 were found to function cooperatively to increase the efficiency of productive transcription initiation and reinitiation. Further analysis of synergism between SRC-1 and p300 revealed an obligatory “sequential” recruitment of SRC-1 and p300 to liganded PR. Efficient recruitment of p300 required the presence of SRC-1. In addition, functional analysis of SRC-2 and SRC-3 coactivators indicated that the SRC family modulated PR transactivation from chromatin by a similar mechanism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The general transcription factor, TFIID, consists of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) associated with a series of TBP-associated factors (TAFs) that together participate in the assembly of the transcription preinitiation complex. One of the TAFs, TAFII250, has acetyltransferase (AT) activity that is necessary for transcription of MHC class I genes: inhibition of the AT activity represses transcription. To identify potential cellular factors that might regulate the AT activity of TAFII250, a yeast two-hybrid library was screened with a TAFII250 segment (amino acids 848-1279) that spanned part of its AT domain and it's the domain that binds to the protein, RAP74. The TFIID component, TAFII55, was isolated and found to interact predominantly with the RAP74-binding domain. TAFII55 binding to TAFII250 inhibits its AT activity. Importantly, the addition of recombinant TAFII55 to in vitro transcription assays inhibits TAFII250-dependent MHC class I transcription. Thus, TAFII55 is capable of regulating TAFII250 function by modulating its AT activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have synthesized three peptides from the mdm-2 binding domain of human p53, residues 12–26 (PPLSQETFSDLWKLL), residues 12–20, and 17–26. To enable transport of the peptides across the cell membrane and at the same time to maximize the active mdm-2 binding α-helical conformation for these peptides, each was attached at its carboxyl terminus to the penetratin sequence, KKWKMRRNQFWVKVQRG, that contains many positively charged residues that stabilize an α-helix when present on its carboxyl terminal end. All three peptides were cytotoxic to human cancer cells in culture, whereas a control, unrelated peptide attached to the same penetratin sequence had no effect on these cell lines. The same three cytotoxic peptides had no effect on the growth of normal cells, including human cord blood-derived stem cells. These peptides were as effective in causing cell death in p53-null cancer cells as in those having mutant or normal p53. Peptide-induced cell death is not accompanied by expression of apoptosis-associated proteins such as Bax and wafp21. Based on these findings, we conclude that the antiproliferative effects of these p53-derived peptides are not completely dependent on p53 activity and may prove useful as general anticancer agents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified a human nuclease that specifically cleaves four-stranded DNA stabilized by G quartets (G4 DNA). This nuclease, GQN1 (G quartet nuclease 1), cuts within the single-stranded region 5′ of the barrel formed by stacked G quartets. GQN1 does not cleave duplex or single-stranded DNA, Holliday junctions, or G4 RNA. Cleavage depends on DNA structure and not on flanking sequence. Activity is elevated in but not restricted to B cells, making GQN1 a strong candidate for function in immunoglobulin heavy chain class switch recombination. Identification of a mammalian nuclease that specifically cleaves G4 DNA provides further support for the notion that DNA structures stabilized by G quartets form in vivo and function in regulated recombination and genomic evolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mechanism by which the peptide exchange factor HLA-DM catalyzes peptide loading onto structurally homologous class II MHC proteins is an outstanding problem in antigen presentation. The peptide-loading reaction of class II MHC proteins is complex and includes conformational changes in both empty and peptide-bound forms in addition to a bimolecular binding step. By using a fluorescence energy transfer assay to follow the kinetics of peptide binding to the human class II MHC protein HLA-DR1, we find that HLA-DM catalyzes peptide exchange by facilitating a conformational change in the peptide-bound complex, and not by promoting the bimolecular MHC–peptide reaction or the conversion between peptide-receptive and -averse forms of the empty protein. Thus, HLA-DM serves essentially as a protein-folding or conformational catalyst.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present a model describing how Mg2+ binds and stabilizes specific RNA structures. In this model, RNA stabilization arises from two energetically distinct modes of Mg2+ binding: diffuse- and site-binding. Diffusely bound Mg2+ are electrostatically attracted to the strong anionic field around the RNA and are accurately described by the Poisson–Boltzmann equation as an ensemble distributed according to the electrostatic potentials around the nucleic acid. Site-bound Mg2+ are strongly attracted to specifically arranged electronegative ligands that desolvate the ion and the RNA binding site. Thus, site-binding is a competition between the strong coulombic attraction and the large cost of desolvating the ion and its binding pocket. By using this framework, we analyze three systems where a single site-bound Mg2+ may be important for stability: the P5 helix and the P5b stem loop from the P4-P6 domain of the Tetrahymena thermophila group I intron and a 58-nt fragment of the Escherichia coli 23S ribosomal RNA. Diffusely bound Mg2+ play a dominant role in stabilizing these RNA structures. These ions stabilize the folded structures, in part, by accumulating in regions of high negative electrostatic potential. These regions of Mg2+ localization correspond to ions that are observed in the x-ray crystallographic and NMR structures of the RNA. In contrast, the contribution of site-binding to RNA stability is often quite small because of the large desolvation penalty. However, in special cases, site-binding of partially dehydrated Mg2+ to locations with extraordinarily high electrostatic potential can also help stabilize folded RNA structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Integrins are a family of α/β heterodimeric membrane proteins, which mediate cell–cell and cell–matrix interactions. The molecular mechanisms by which integrins are activated and cluster are currently poorly understood. One hypothesis posits that the cytoplasmic tails of the α and β subunits interact strongly with one another in a 1:1 interaction, and that this interaction is modulated in the course of the activation of αIIbβ3 [Hughes, P. E., et al. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 6571–6574]. To examine the structural basis for this interaction, protein fragments encompassing the transmembrane helix plus cytoplasmic tails of the α and β subunits of αIIbβ3 were expressed and studied in phospholipid micelles at physiological salt concentrations. Analyses of these fragments by analytical ultracentrifugation, NMR, circular dichroism, and electrophoresis indicated that they had very little or no tendency to interact with one another. Instead, they formed homomeric interactions, with the α- and β-fragments forming dimers and trimers, respectively. Thus, these regions of the protein structure may contribute to the clustering of integrins that accompanies cellular adhesion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The atomic force microscope (AFM) is a powerful tool for imaging individual biological molecules attached to a substrate and placed in aqueous solution. At present, however, it is limited by the speed at which it can successively record highly resolved images. We sought to increase markedly the scan speed of the AFM, so that in the future it can be used to study the dynamic behavior of biomolecules. For this purpose, we have developed a high-speed scanner, free of resonant vibrations up to 60 kHz, small cantilevers with high resonance frequencies (450–650 kHz) and small spring constants (150–280 pN/nm), an objective-lens type of deflection detection device, and several electronic devices of wide bandwidth. Integration of these various devices has produced an AFM that can capture a 100 × 100 pixel2 image within 80 ms and therefore can generate a movie consisting of many successive images (80-ms intervals) of a sample in aqueous solution. This is demonstrated by imaging myosin V molecules moving on mica (see http://www.s.kanazawa-u.ac.jp/phys/biophys/bmv_movie.htm).
DOC DONE!Abstract
We show that theoretical microscopic titration curves (THEMATICS) can be used to identify active-site residues in proteins of known structure. Results are featured for three enzymes: triosephosphate isomerase (TIM), aldose reductase (AR), and phosphomannose isomerase (PMI). We note that TIM and AR have similar structures but catalyze different kinds of reactions, whereas TIM and PMI have different structures but catalyze similar reactions. Analysis of the theoretical microscopic titration curves for all of the ionizable residues of these proteins shows that a small fraction (3–7%) of the curves possess a flat region where the residue is partially protonated over a wide pH range. The preponderance of residues with such perturbed curves occur in the active site. Additional results are given in summary form to show the success of the method for proteins with a variety of different chemistries and structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Magnetic relaxation has been used extensively to study and characterize biological tissues. In particular, spin-lattice relaxation in the rotating frame (T1ρ) of water in protein solutions has been demonstrated to be sensitive to macromolecular weight and composition. However, the nature of the contribution from low frequency processes to water relaxation remains unclear. We have examined this problem by studying the water T1ρ dispersion in peptide solutions (14N- and 15N-labeled), glycosaminoglycan solutions, and samples of bovine articular cartilage before and after proteoglycan degradation. We find in model systems and tissue that hydrogen exchange from NH and OH groups to water dominates the low frequency water T1ρ dispersion, in the context of the model used to interpret the relaxation data. Further, low frequency dispersion changes are correlated with loss of proteoglycan from the extra-cellular matrix of articular cartilage. This finding has significance for the noninvasive detection of matrix degradation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Growth of tumors and metastasis are processes known to require neovascularization. To ascertain the participation of the endogenous angiogenic inhibitor thrombospondin-1 (TSP1) in tumor progression, we generated mammary tumor-prone mice that either lack, or specifically overexpress, TSP1 in the mammary gland. Tumor burden and vasculature were significantly increased in TSP1-deficient animals, and capillaries within the tumor appeared distended and sinusoidal. In contrast, TSP1 overexpressors showed delayed tumor growth or lacked frank tumor development (20% of animals); tumor capillaries showed reduced diameter and were less frequent. Interestingly, absence of TSP1 resulted in increased association of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) with its receptor VEGFR2 and higher levels of active matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9), a molecule previously shown to facilitate both angiogenesis and tumor invasion. In vitro, enzymatic activation of proMMP9 was suppressed by TSP1. Together these results argue for a protective role of endogenous inhibitors of angiogenesis in tumor growth and implicate TSP1 in the in vivo regulation of metalloproteinase-9 activation and VEGF signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cubilin is a 460-kDa protein functioning as an endocytic receptor for intrinsic factor vitamin B12 complex in the intestine and as a receptor for apolipoprotein A1 and albumin reabsorption in the kidney proximal tubules and the yolk sac. In the present study, we report the identification of cubilin as a novel transferrin (Tf) receptor involved in catabolism of Tf. Consistent with a cubilin-mediated endocytosis of Tf in the kidney, lysosomes of human, dog, and mouse renal proximal tubules strongly accumulate Tf, whereas no Tf is detectable in the endocytic apparatus of the renal tubule epithelium of dogs with deficient surface expression of cubilin. As a consequence, these dogs excrete increased amounts of Tf in the urine. Mice with deficient synthesis of megalin, the putative coreceptor colocalizing with cubilin, also excrete high amounts of Tf and fail to internalize Tf in their proximal tubules. However, in contrast to the dogs with the defective cubilin expression, the megalin-deficient mice accumulate Tf on the luminal cubilin-expressing surface of the proximal tubule epithelium. This observation indicates that megalin deficiency causes failure in internalization of the cubilin–ligand complex. The megalin-dependent, cubilin-mediated endocytosis of Tf and the potential of the receptors thereby to facilitate iron uptake were further confirmed by analyzing the uptake of 125I- and 59Fe-labeled Tf in cultured yolk sac cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proglucagon-derived peptide glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2), a product of a subset of gut epithelial cells, is pursued clinically for its ability to stimulate gut epithelial growth and repair. Here we show that although specific epithelial progenitors respond to GLP-2 administration, the epithelium does not express the GLP-2 receptor. Rather, enteric neurons express the receptor, respond to GLP-2, and transmit a signal (which can be blocked by the voltage-gated sodium channel inhibitor tetrodotoxin) back to the epithelium. Thus the nervous system is a key component of a feedback loop regulating epithelial growth and repair.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Homocyst(e)ine (Hcy) inhibits the expression of the antioxidant enzyme cellular glutathione peroxidase (GPx-1) in vitro and in vivo, which can lead to an increase in reactive oxygen species that inactivate NO and promote endothelial dysfunction. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that overexpression of GPx-1 can restore the normal endothelial phenotype in hyperhomocyst(e)inemic states. Heterozygous cystathionine β-synthase-deficient (CBS(−/+)) mice and their wild-type littermates (CBS(+/+)) were crossbred with mice that overexpress GPx-1 [GPx-1(tg+) mice]. GPx-1 activity was 28% lower in CBS(−/+)/GPx-1(tg−) compared with CBS(+/+)/GPx-1(tg−) mice (P < 0.05), and CBS(−/+) and CBS(+/+) mice overexpressing GPx-1 had 1.5-fold higher GPx-1 activity compared with GPx-1 nontransgenic mice (P < 0.05). Mesenteric arterioles of CBS(−/+)/GPx-1(tg−) mice showed vasoconstriction to superfusion with β-methacholine and bradykinin (P < 0.001 vs. all other groups), whereas nonhyperhomocyst(e)inemic mice [CBS(+/+)/GPx-1(tg−) and CBS(+/+)/GPx-1(tg+) mice] demonstrated dose-dependent vasodilation in response to both agonists. Overexpression of GPx-1 in hyperhomocyst(e)inemic mice restored the normal endothelium-dependent vasodilator response. Bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC) were transiently transfected with GPx-1 and incubated with dl-homocysteine (HcyH) or l-cysteine. HcyH incubation decreased GPx-1 activity in sham-transfected BAEC (P < 0.005) but not in GPx-1-transfected cells. Nitric oxide release from BAEC was significantly decreased by HcyH but not cysteine, and GPx-1 overexpression attenuated this decrease. These findings demonstrate that overexpression of GPx-1 can compensate for the adverse effects of Hcy on endothelial function and suggest that the adverse vascular effects of Hcy are at least partly mediated by oxidative inactivation of NO.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endostatin (ES) inhibits endothelial cell migration and has been found to bind to glypicans (Gpcs) on both endothelial cells and renal epithelial cells. We examined the possibility that ES might regulate epithelial cell morphogenesis. The addition of ES to cultured epithelial cells causes an inhibition of both hepatocyte growth factor- and epidermal growth factor-dependent process formation and migration. In contrast, ES does not inhibit epidermal growth factor-dependent morphogenesis in renal epithelial cells derived from Gpc-3 −/mice, whereas expression of Gpc-1 in these cells reconstitutes ES responsiveness. Gpc-3 −/mice have been shown to display enhanced ureteric bud (UB) branching early in development, and cultured UB cells release ES into the media, suggesting that ES binding to Gpcs may regulate UB branching. The addition of ES inhibits branching of the explanted UB, whereas a neutralizing Ab to ES enhances UB outgrowth and branching. Thus, local expression of ES at the tips of the UB may play a role in the regulation of UB arborization.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Kip1p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a bipolar kinesin in the conserved bimC kinesin subfamily that mediates mitotic spindle–pole separation. Here, we show that Kip1p is regulated immediately after anaphase initiation by its rapid degradation. Degradation required the ubiquitin protein ligase called the anaphase-promoting complex, the anaphase-promoting complex activating protein Cdc20, and a unique 43-aa sequence in Kip1p. Degradation also required import of Kip1p into the nucleus, but occurred independently of spindle association. A mutation that stabilized Kip1p impaired anaphase progression. The timing of degradation suggests that Kip1p functions primarily during spindle assembly and metaphase, and that Kip1p degradation facilitates structural changes in the mitotic spindle as anaphase progresses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the vertebrate embryo, neural cell types are organized spatially along the dorsoventral axis of the neural tube and differ by expression of cell-intrinsic determinants and by their adhesive and locomotory properties. Thus, dorsally, neural crest cells (NCC) show a strong propensity to disperse and migrate, whereas cells situated ventrally are highly cohesive and poorly motile. Members of the bone morphogenetic proteins have been shown to exert a dual role in the specification of dorsal neuroepithelial cells and in the dispersion of NCCs. To test whether Sonic hedgehog (Shh), another signaling molecule involved in the patterning of the ventral neural tube, might also contribute to the control of the adhesive and migratory potential of neuroepithelial cells, we analyzed the effect of ectopic Shh on NCC dispersion from neural tube explants cultured in vitro. The addition of Shh to the migration substrate of NCC caused inhibition of their dispersion. The effect of Shh on cell migration was reversible and was not accounted for by alterations of the specification, delamination, proliferation, and survival of NCCs but could be essentially attributed to a decreased cell-substrate adhesion mediated by integrins. In addition, Shh activity on cell migration was mediated by a specific N-terminal region of the molecule and was independent from the signaling cascade elicited by the Patched-Smoothened receptor and involving the Gli transcription factors. Our study therefore reveals an unanticipated role for Shh in regulating adhesion and migration of neuroepithelial cells that is discernable from its inductive, mitogenic, and trophic functions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Calcium ions play a primary role in the regulation of sperm cell behavior. We report finding a voltage-gated ion channel (CatSper2) that is expressed in male germ cells but not in other cells. The putative channel contains 6 transmembrane segments, making it more similar to the voltage-gated potassium channels, but the ion selectivity pore domain sequence resembles that of a Cav channel. The mRNA is expressed during the meiotic or postmeiotic stages of spermatogenesis, and the protein is localized to the sperm flagellum, suggesting a role in the regulation of sperm motility. The mRNA for the channel is present in mouse, rat, and human sperm cells, and the gene is found on chromosome 2 E5–F1 in the mouse and 15q13 in the human. Recently, another voltage-gated channel (CatSper) that has features similar to the one reported here was discovered. It also is expressed within the flagellum and is required for normal fertility of mice. However, expression of CatSper2 alone or coexpression with CatSper in cultured cells, or attempts to coimmunoprecipitate the two proteins from germ cells failed to demonstrate that these two unique but similar α-like subunits form either a homo- or heterotetramer. It is possible, therefore, that two independent α subunits, different from other known voltage-gated channels, regulate sperm motility.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transcription factor CCAAT enhancer binding protein α (C/EBPα) is expressed at high levels in liver and adipose tissue. Cell culture studies show that C/EBPα is sufficient to trigger differentiation of preadipocytes into mature adipocytes, suggesting a central role for C/EBPα in the development of adipose tissue. C/EBPα knockout mice die within 7–12 h after birth. Defective gluconeogenesis of the liver and subsequent hypoglycemia contribute to the early death of these animals. This short life span impairs investigation of the development of adipose tissue in these mice. To improve the survival of C/EBPα−/− animals, we generated a transgenic line that expresses C/EBPα under the control of the albumin enhancer/promoter. This line was bred into the knockout strain to generate animals that express C/EBPα in the liver but in no other tissue. The presence of the transgene improved survival of C/EBPα−/− animals almost 3-fold. Transgenic C/EBPα−/− animals at 7 days of age show an absence of s.c., perirenal, and epididymal white fat despite excess lipid substrate in the serum, whereas brown adipose tissue is somewhat hypertrophied and shows minimal biochemical alterations. Interestingly, mammary gland fat tissue is present and exhibits normal morphology. The absence of white adipose tissue in many depots in the presence of high serum lipid levels shows that C/EBPα is required for the in vivo development of this tissue. In contrast, brown adipose tissue differentiation is independent of C/EBPα expression. The presence of lipid in brown adipose tissue serves as an internal nutritional control, indicating that neither nutritional intake nor lipoprotein composition is likely responsible for the absence of white fat.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a two-part test, using the Bacillus subtilis sacB/SacY transcription antitermination system, to evaluate the completeness of temporal and spatial compartmentalization of gene expression during bacterial cell development. Transcription of sacY(1–55) (encoding a constitutively active form of the antiterminator, SacY) is directed by one promoter, whereas transcription of sacB′-′lacZ (the target of SacY action) is directed by the same or another promoter. To obtain β-galactosidase activity, SacY(1–55) needs to be present when sacB′-′lacZ is being transcribed. We tested the system by analyzing the spatial compartmentalization of the activities of RNA polymerase σ factors, which are tightly regulated during sporulation of B. subtilis: σF and then σG in the prespore, σE and then σK in the mother cell. We have confirmed that the activities of σF and σE are spatially compartmentalized. We have demonstrated that there is also sharp temporal compartmentalization, with little or no overlap in the activities of σF and σG or of σE and σK. In contrast, we found no compartmentalization of the activity of the main vegetative factor, σA, which continued to be active alongside all of the sporulation-specific σ factors. We also found no temporal compartmentalization of expression of loci that are activated during the development of competent cells of B. subtilis, a developmental program distinct from spore formation. A possible mechanism to explain the temporal compartmentalization of σF and σG activities is that the anti-sigma factor SpoIIAB transfers from σG to σF.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Declines in habitat and wildlife in semiarid African savannas are widely reported and commonly attributed to agropastoral population growth, livestock impacts, and subsistence cultivation. However, extreme annual and shorter-term variability of rainfall, primary production, vegetation, and populations of grazers make directional trends and causal chains hard to establish in these ecosystems. Here two decades of changes in land cover and wildebeest in the Serengeti-Mara region of East Africa are analyzed in terms of potential drivers (rainfall, human and livestock population growth, socio-economic trends, land tenure, agricultural policies, and markets). The natural experiment research design controls for confounding variables, and our conceptual model and statistical approach integrate natural and social sciences data. The Kenyan part of the ecosystem shows rapid land-cover change and drastic decline for a wide range of wildlife species, but these changes are absent on the Tanzanian side. Temporal climate trends, human population density and growth rates, uptake of small-holder agriculture, and livestock population trends do not differ between the Kenyan and Tanzanian parts of the ecosystem and cannot account for observed changes. Differences in private versus state/communal land tenure, agricultural policy, and market conditions suggest, and spatial correlations confirm, that the major changes in land cover and dominant grazer species numbers are driven primarily by private landowners responding to market opportunities for mechanized agriculture, less by agropastoral population growth, cattle numbers, or small-holder land use.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Even among vertebrate species of the same body mass and higher-level taxonomic group, metabolic rates exhibit substantial differences, for which diverse explanatory factors—such as dietary energy content, latitude, altitude, temperature, and rainfall—have been postulated. A unifying underlying factor could be food availability, in turn controlled by net primary productivity (NPP) of the animal's natural environment. We tested this possibility by studying five North American species of Peromyscus mice, all of them similar in diet (generalist omnivores) and in gut morphology but differing by factors of up to 13 in NPP of their habitat of origin. We maintained breeding colonies of all five species in the laboratory under identical conditions and consuming identical diets. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) and daily ad libitum food intake both increased with NPP, which explained 88% and 90% of their variances, respectively. High-metabolism mouse species from high-NPP environments were behaviorally more active than were low-metabolism species from low-NPP environments. Intestinal glucose uptake capacity also increased with NPP (and with BMR and food intake), because species of high-NPP environments had larger small intestines and higher uptake rates. For metabolic rates of our five species, the driving environmental variable is environmental productivity itself (and hence food availability), rather than temporal variability of productivity. Thus, species that have evolved in the presence of abundant food run their metabolism “fast,” both while active and while idling, as compared with species of less productive environments, even when all species are given access to unlimited food.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The symbiotic bacterium Wolbachia pipientis has been considered unique in its ability to cause multiple reproductive anomalies in its arthropod hosts. Here we report that an undescribed bacterium is vertically transmitted and associated with thelytokous parthenogenetic reproduction in Encarsia, a genus of parasitoid wasps. Although Wolbachia was found in only one of seven parthenogenetic Encarsia populations examined, the “Encarsia bacterium” (EB) was found in the other six. Among seven sexually reproducing populations screened, EB was present in one, and none harbored Wolbachia. Antibiotic treatment did not induce male production in Encarsia pergandiella but changed the oviposition behavior of females. Cured females accepted one host type at the same rate as control females but parasitized significantly fewer of the other host type. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rDNA gene sequence places the EB in a unique clade within the Cytophaga-Flexibacter-Bacteroid group and shows EB is unrelated to the Proteobacteria, where Wolbachia and most other insect symbionts are found. These results imply evolution of the induction of parthenogenesis in a lineage other than Wolbachia. Importantly, these results also suggest that EB may modify the behavior of its wasp carrier in a way that enhances its transmission.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Density-dependent territorial interactions have been suggested to cause immunosuppression and thereby decrease fitness, but empirical support from natural populations is lacking. Data from a natural lizard population (Uta stansburiana) showed that breeding females surrounded by many territorial neighbors had suppressed immune function. Furthermore, variation in immunological condition had different effects on the fitness of the two heritable female throat-color morphs in this population. These interactive fitness effects caused correlational selection between female throat color and immune responsiveness. Population genetic theory predicts that this should have lead to the buildup and preservation of a genetic correlation between female morphotype and immunological condition. Accordingly, the throat color of a female was genetically correlated (rA = −1.36; SE = 0.55) with her daughter's immune responsiveness.
DOC DONE!Abstract
O6-methylguanine (O6mG) is a potent mutagenic and procarcinogenic DNA lesion. Organisms have evolved with a DNA repair mechanism that largely ameliorates the deleterious effects of O6mG through a direct reversal mechanism by a protein termed O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). However, the contribution of O6mG to carcinogenesis, in the absence of known exposure to agents that produce it, has not been defined. Nontransgenic C3HeB male mice have a high frequency of spontaneous liver tumors. Transgenic CeHeB/FeJ mice expressing human MGMT (hMGMT) were generated that had elevated hepatic MGMT activity. The spontaneous development of hepatocellular carcinoma was significantly reduced in those mice expressing hMGMT compared with nontransgenic C3HeB/FeJ male mice. No differences were detected in spontaneous mutant frequencies in lacI transgenes in mice carrying hMGMT compared with that without hMGMT but the proportion of GC to AT transition mutations was lower in the transgenic mice carrying hMGMT as well as lacI. Tumors that arose in C3HeB/FeJ transgenic mice were largely deficient in hMGMT protein as determined by immunohistochemistry with a monoclonal antibody directed against hMGMT. Together these data indicate that spontaneous O6mG lesions induced hepatocellular carcinogenesis in C3HeB/FeJ male mice. These transgenic mice represent a rare example of reduced spontaneous carcinogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are widespread and abundant in both plant and animal genomes. Despite the discovery and characterization of many MITE families, their origin and transposition mechanism are still poorly understood, largely because MITEs are nonautonomous elements with no coding capacity. The starting point for this study was P instability factor (PIF), an active DNA transposable element family from maize that was first identified following multiple mutagenic insertions into exactly the same site in intron 2 of the maize anthocyanin regulatory gene R. In this study we report the isolation of a maize Tourist-like MITE family called miniature PIF (mPIF) that shares several features with PIF elements, including identical terminal inverted repeats, similar subterminal sequences, and an unusual but striking preference for an extended 9-bp target site. These shared features indicate that mPIF and PIF elements were amplified by the same or a closely related transposase. This transposase was identified through the isolation of several PIF elements and the identification of one element (called PIFa) that cosegregated with PIF activity. PIFa encodes a putative protein with homologs in Arabidopsis, rice, sorghum, nematodes, and a fungus. Our data suggest that PIFa and these PIF-like elements belong to a new eukaryotic DNA transposon superfamily that is distantly related to the bacterial IS5 group and are responsible for the origin and spread of Tourist-like MITEs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In addition to its well-established role in responding to phosphate starvation, the cyclin-dependent kinase Pho85 has been implicated in a number of other physiological responses of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, including synthesis of glycogen. To comprehensively characterize the range of Pho85-dependent gene expression, we used a chemical genetic approach that enabled us to control Pho85 kinase activity with a cell-permeable inhibitor and whole genome transcript profiling. We found significant phenotypic differences between the rapid loss of activity caused by inhibition and the deletion of the genomic copy of PHO85. We demonstrate that Pho85 controls the expression of not only previously identified glycogen synthetic genes, but also a significant regulon of genes involved in the cellular response to environmental stress. In addition, we show that the effects of this inhibitor are both rapid and reversible, making it well suited to the study of the behavior of dynamic signaling pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat is a widely studied animal model of retinal degeneration in which the inability of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) to phagocytize shed photoreceptor outer segments leads to a progressive loss of rod and cone photoreceptors. We recently used positional cloning to demonstrate that the gene Mertk likely corresponds to the retinal dystrophy (rdy) locus of the RCS rat. In the present study, we sought to determine whether gene transfer of Mertk to a RCS rat retina would result in correction of the RPE phagocytosis defect and preservation of photoreceptors. We used subretinal injection of a recombinant replication-deficient adenovirus encoding rat Mertk to deliver the gene to the eyes of young RCS rats. Electrophysiological assessment of animals 30 days after injection revealed an increased sensitivity of treated eyes to low-intensity light. Histologic and ultrastructural assessment demonstrated substantial sparing of photoreceptors, preservation of outer segment structure, and correction of the RPE phagocytosis defect in areas surrounding the injection site. Our results provide definitive evidence that mutation of Mertk underlies the RCS retinal dystrophy phenotype, and that the phenotype can be corrected by treatment of juvenile animals. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of complementation of both a functional cellular defect (phagocytosis) and a photoreceptor degeneration by gene transfer to the RPE. These results, together with the recent discovery of MERTK mutations in individuals with retinitis pigmentosa, emphasize the importance of the RCS rat as a model for gene therapy of diseases that arise from RPE dysfunction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To identify new Drosophila genes involved in the immune response, we monitored the gene expression profile of adult flies in response to microbial infection by using high-density oligonucleotide microarrays encompassing nearly the full Drosophila genome. Of 13,197 genes tested, we have characterized 230 induced and 170 repressed by microbial infection, most of which had not previously been associated with the immune response. Many of these genes can be assigned to specific aspects of the immune response, including recognition, phagocytosis, coagulation, melanization, activation of NF-κB transcription factors, synthesis of antimicrobial peptides, production of reactive oxygen species, and regulation of iron metabolism. Additionally, we found a large number of genes with unknown function that may be involved in control and execution of the immune response. Determining the function of these genes represents an important challenge for improving our knowledge of innate immunity. Complete results may be found at http://www.fruitfly.org/expression/immunity/.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In Drosophila, the most widely used system for generating spatially restricted transgene expression is based on the yeast GAL4 protein and its target upstream activating sequence (UAS). To permit temporal as well as spatial control over UAS-transgene expression, we have explored the use of a conditional RU486-dependent GAL4 protein (GeneSwitch) in Drosophila. By using cloned promoter fragments of the embryonic lethal abnormal vision gene or the myosin heavy chain gene, we have expressed GeneSwitch specifically in neurons or muscles and show that its transcriptional activity within the target tissues depends on the presence of the activator RU486 (mifepristone). We used available UAS-reporter lines to demonstrate RU486-dependent tissue-specific transgene expression in larvae. Reporter protein expression could be detected 5 h after systemic application of RU486 by either feeding or “larval bathing.” Transgene expression levels were dose-dependent on RU486 concentration in larval food, with low background expression in the absence of RU486. By using genetically altered ion channels as reporters, we were able to change the physiological properties of larval bodywall muscles in an RU486-dependent fashion. We demonstrate here the applicability of GeneSwitch for conditional tissue-specific expression in Drosophila, and we provide tools to control pre- and postsynaptic expression of transgenes at the larval neuromuscular junction during postembryonic life.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a method for turning on and off the expression of transgenes within Drosophila in both time and space. Two different enhancer detector elements carrying an RU486-inducible form of the yeast transcription factor GAL4 were constructed and used to generate enhancer detector lines. These lines were screened for RU486-inducible reporter gene expression in the adult head. We identified lines that exhibit inducible expression in many cell and tissue types, verifying that the elements respond to nearby enhancers. No expression was detected in the absence of the ligand. The P{Switch1} element responded to genomic enhancers less efficiently than P{Switch2} but produced more specific patterns of expression. Two P{Switch} lines were used to ablate fat body tissue in adult females through the induced expression of diphtheria toxin. These females were sterile, which correlates with fat body loss, and they died prematurely.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The recent completion of the deletion of essentially all of the ORFs in yeast is an important new resource for identifying the phenotypes of unknown genes. Each ORF is replaced with a cassette containing unique tag sequences that allow rapid parallel analysis of strains in a pool by using hybridization to a high-density oligonucleotide array. We examined the utility of this system to identify genes conferring resistance to UV irradiation by using a pool of 4,627 individual homozygous deletion strains (representing deletions of all nonessential genes). We identified most of the nonessential genes previously shown to be involved in nucleotide excision repair, in cell cycle checkpoints, in homologous recombination, and in postreplication repair after UV damage. We also identified and individually confirmed, by replacing the genes, three new genes, to our knowledge not previously reported to confer UV sensitivity when deleted. Two of these newly identified genes have human orthologs associated with cancer, demonstrating the potential of this system to uncover human genes affecting sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents and genes potentially involved in cancer formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD40 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, expressed on a wide range of cell types including B cells, macrophages, and dendritic cells. CD40 is the receptor for CD40 ligand (CD40L), a molecule predominantly expressed by activated CD4+ T cells. CD40/CD40L interaction induces the formation of memory B lymphocytes and promotes Ig isotype switching, as demonstrated in mice knocked-out for either CD40L or CD40 gene, and in patients with X-linked hyper IgM syndrome, a disease caused by CD40L/TNFSF5 gene mutations. In the present study, we have identified three patients with an autosomal recessive form of hyper IgM who fail to express CD40 on the cell surface. Sequence analysis of CD40 genomic DNA showed that one patient carried a homozygous silent mutation at the fifth base pair position of exon 5, involving an exonic splicing enhancer and leading to exon skipping and premature termination; the other two patients showed a homozygous point mutation in exon 3, resulting in a cysteine to arginine substitution. These findings show that mutations of the CD40 gene cause an autosomal recessive form of hyper IgM, which is immunologically and clinically undistinguishable from the X-linked form.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To specify when and where Ig class switch recombination (CSR) takes place, a good molecular marker closely associated with active CSR is required. CSR is accompanied by deletion of circular DNA from the Ig heavy chain locus. The circular DNA contains a DNA segment between Sμ and a target S region including its I promoter, which is driven by specific cytokine stimulation before CSR. We found that the specific I promoter is still active in looped-out circular DNA and directs production of I-Cμ transcripts termed “circle transcripts.” Reverse transcription–PCR demonstrated transient induction of specific circle transcripts upon CSR in a murine lymphoma cell line, CH12F3-2A, as well as spleen B cells. Production of the circle transcripts appeared to depend on expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), an essential factor for CSR. A comparison of kinetics between circle transcripts and circular DNA showed more rapid disappearance of circle transcripts. Thus, circle transcripts may serve as a hallmark for active CSR in vitro and in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Upon productive interaction of CD4 T cells with antigen-presenting cells (APCs), receptors and intracellular proteins translocate and form spatially segregated supramolecular activation clusters (SMACs). It is not known whether SMACs are required for CD8 T cell activation. CD8 T cells, unlike CD4 T cells, can be activated by a single peptide-MHC molecule, or by purified monovalent recombinant peptide-MHC molecules. We studied, by three-dimensional digital microscopy, cell conjugates of fresh ex vivo CD8 T cells (obtained from OT-1 mice, which are transgenic for T cell antigen receptor reactive with the complex of H-2Kb and the ovalbumin octapeptide SIINFEKL) and peptide-pulsed APCs. Remarkably, even in T cell:APC conjugates that were formed in the presence of the lowest concentration of peptide that was sufficient to elicit T cell proliferation and IFN-γ production; the θ isoform of protein kinase C was clustered in a central SMAC, and lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 and talin were clustered in the peripheral SMAC. Conjugation of T cells to APCs that were pulsed with concentrations of peptide smaller than that required to activate T cells was greatly reduced, and SMACs were not formed at all. APCs expressing mutant H-2Kb (Lys227) molecules that do not bind CD8 were unable to form stable conjugates with these T cells, even at high peptide concentrations. Thus, although CD8 and CD4 T cells may display different sensitivity to the concentration and oligomerization of surface receptors, SMACs are formed and seem to be required functionally in both cell types. However, unlike CD4 T cells, which can form SMACs without CD4, CD8 T cells from OT-1 transgenic mice depend on their coreceptor, CD8, for the proper formation of SMACs .
DOC DONE!Abstract
A novel mosquito antimicrobial peptide, gambicin, and the corresponding gene were isolated in parallel through differential display-PCR, an expressed sequence tag (EST) project, and characterization of an antimicrobial activity in a mosquito cell line by reverse-phase chromatography. The 616-bp gambicin ORF encodes an 81-residue protein that is processed and secreted as a 61-aa mature peptide containing eight cysteines engaged in four disulfide bridges. Gambicin lacks sequence homology with other known proteins. Like other Anopheles gambiae antimicrobial peptide genes, gambicin is induced by natural or experimental infection in the midgut, fatbody, and hemocyte-like cell lines. Within the midgut, gambicin is predominantly expressed in the anterior part. Both local and systemic gambicin expression is induced during early and late stages of natural malaria infection. In vitro experiments showed that the 6.8-kDa mature peptide can kill both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, has a morphogenic effect on a filamentous fungus, and is marginally lethal to Plasmodium berghei ookinetes. An oxidized form of gambicin isolated from the cell line medium was more active against bacteria than the nonoxidized form from the same medium.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD1d-restricted natural killer (NK) T cells reactive with the glycolipid α-galactosylceramide (α-GalCer) are a distinct lymphocyte sublineage. They express an invariant Vα14-Jα18 T cell receptor (TcR), but the role of the β chain has been controversial. Here, we have used CD1d tetramers to identify and isolate NK T cells based on their antigen specificity. In mice lacking germline Vβ8, most of the α-GalCer-reactive T cells express either Vβ2 or Vβ7, strong Vβ selection being revealed by the lack of an increase in other Vβ regions. By contrast to the selection for complementarity determining region (CDR) 3β sequences in some anti-peptide responses, α-GalCer-reactive T cells have polyclonal CDR3β sequences. There is little CDR3β sequence redundancy between organs or individual mice, and, surprisingly, there also is no evidence for organ-specific CDR3β sequence motifs. These data argue against a T cell receptor-mediated self-reactivity for tissue-specific CD1d-bound ligands. Each NKT clone is represented by only 5–10 cells. This clone size is similar to naive conventional T cells, and much lower than that reported for memory T cells, although NK T cells have an activated/memory phenotype.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Myasthenia gravis (MG) and experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG) are T-cell regulated, antibody-mediated diseases. Peptides p195–212 and p259–271 of the human acetylcholine receptor (AChR) α-subunit, were previously shown to be immunodominant T cell epitopes in MG patients as well as in SJL and BALB/c mice, respectively. A dual altered peptide ligand (APL) composed of the two single amino acid analogs of the myasthenogenic peptides was shown to inhibit, in vitro and in vivo, MG-associated autoimmune responses. Furthermore, the dual APL was shown to down-regulate the clinical manifestations of an established EAMG in C57BL/6 mice injected with Torpedo AChR (TAChR). In the present study we attempted the elucidation of the mechanism(s) by which the dual APL down-regulates EAMG-associated responses. It is shown here that the dual APL acts by actively suppressing, in a specific manner, myasthenogenic T cell responses. The active suppression is mediated, at least partially, by the up-regulation of the secretion of TGF-β following administration of the dual APL. The up-regulated secretion of TGF-β is accompanied by down-regulation of IFN-γ and IL-2 [T helper (Th) 1-type cytokine] secretion and by an up-regulation of IL-10 secretion (Th2-type cytokine). Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of the dual APL could be adoptively transferred to p195–212 or TAChR-immunized mice. The down-regulation of IL-2 secretion and the ability of recombinant IL-2 to rescue lymph node cells of mice treated with the dual APL from a state of unresponsiveness suggests that the dual APL acts also, at least partially, by causing the cells to undergo anergy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tsetse flies are the medically and agriculturally important vectors of African trypanosomes. Information on the molecular and biochemical nature of the tsetse/trypanosome interaction is lacking. Here we describe three antimicrobial peptide genes, attacin, defensin, and diptericin, from tsetse fat body tissue obtained by subtractive cloning after immune stimulation with Escherichia coli and trypanosomes. Differential regulation of these genes shows the tsetse immune system can discriminate not only between molecular signals specific for bacteria and trypanosome infections but also between different life stages of trypanosomes. The presence of trypanosomes either in the hemolymph or in the gut early in the infection process does not induce transcription of attacin and defensin significantly. After parasite establishment in the gut, however, both antimicrobial genes are expressed at high levels in the fat body, apparently not affecting the viability of parasites in the midgut. Unlike other insect immune systems, the antimicrobial peptide gene diptericin is constitutively expressed in both fat body and gut tissue of normal and immune stimulated flies, possibly reflecting tsetse immune responses to the multiple Gram-negative symbionts it naturally harbors. When flies were immune stimulated with bacteria before receiving a trypanosome containing bloodmeal, their ability to establish infections was severely blocked, indicating that up-regulation of some immune responsive genes early in infection can act to block parasite transmission. The results are discussed in relation to transgenic approaches proposed for modulating vector competence in tsetse.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Toll-like receptors comprise a family of cell surface receptors that play a crucial role in the innate immune recognition of both Drosophila and mammals. Previous studies have shown that Drosophila Toll-1 mediates the induction of antifungal peptides during fungal infection of adult flies. Through genetic studies, Tube, Pelle, Cactus, and Dif have been identified as downstream components of the Toll-1 signaling pathway. Here we report characterization of a Drosophila homologue of human MyD88, dMyD88. We show that dMyD88 is an adapter in the Toll signaling pathway that associates with both the Toll receptor and the downstream kinase Pelle. Expression of dMyD88 in S2 cells strongly induced activity of a Drosomycin reporter gene, whereas a dominant-negative version of dMyD88 potently inhibited Toll-mediated signaling. We also show that dMyD88 associates with the death domain-containing adapter Drosophila Fas-associated death domain-containing protein (dFADD), which in turn interacts with the apical caspase Dredd. This pathway links a cell surface receptor to an apical caspase in invertebrate cells and therefore suggests that the Toll-mediated pathway of caspase activation may be the evolutionary ancestor of the death receptor-mediated pathway for apoptosis induction in mammals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Medullary carcinoma of the breast (MCB) is a morphologically and biologically distinct subtype of human breast cancer that, despite cytologically anaplastic features, has a more favorable prognosis than other types of breast cancer at similar stages of differentiation. It has been proposed that the improved clinical outcome is due, at least in part, to the presence of a prominent lymphoplasmacytic cell infiltrate in the tumor stroma. We studied the B lymphoplasmacytic cell infiltrates in MCB to determine the role of the antibody response produced by the local infiltrating cells. Oligoclonal predominance among tumor-infiltrating B cells in a panel of MCB patients was observed, suggesting that certain B cell clones were expanded, possibly in response to specific tumor-associated stimuli. IgG antibody phage-display libraries were generated from MCB-infiltrating lymphoplasmacytic cells of two patients, and MCB-reactive monoclonal antibodies were retrieved by selection on fresh-frozen MCB tissue sections. Analysis by mass spectrometry revealed that the antigen targeted by the dominant clones in the oligoclonal B lymphoplasmacytic response in both patients was not a cancer-specific antigen but the cytoskeletal protein β-actin. MCB exhibits an increased rate of apoptosis, and apoptotic MCB cells were shown to expose actin on the cell surface, permitting its recognition by the humoral immune system. Further, actin fragments, similar to those observed after cleavage with the apoptotic protease granzyme B, were observed in MCB tissue. Our results indicate that the major antibody response produced by tumor-infiltrating B lymphoplasmacytic cells are autoimmune in nature and a consequence of the perturbed state of increased MCB apoptosis caused by granzyme B-induced T cell cytotoxicity and/or intrinsic cellular factors of MCB cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
U87 cells derived from human malignant gliomas and growtharrested human embryonic lung (HEL) fibroblasts were examined with respect to their response to ionizing radiation by profiling their RNAs. In the first series of experiments, cells grown in vitro were harvested and the RNAs were extracted 5 h after exposure to 1, 3, or 10 Gy. In the second series of experiments the U87 tumors were implanted in nude mice and subjected to the same doses of irradiation. The xenografts were harvested at 1, 5, or 24 h after irradiation and subjected to the same analyses. We observed and report on (i) cell-type common and cell-type specific responses, (ii) genes induced at low levels of irradiation but not at higher doses, (iii) temporal patterns of gene response in U87 xenografts that varied depending on radiation dose and temporal patterns of response that were similar at all doses tested, (iv) significantly higher up-regulation of cells in xenografts than in in vitro cultures, and (v) genes highly up-regulated by radiation. The responding genes could be grouped into nine functional clusters. The representation of the nine clusters was to some extent dependent on dose and time after irradiation. The results suggest that clinical outcome of ionizing radiation treatment may benefit significantly by taking into account both cell-type and radiation-dose specificity of cellular responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Indinavir is a viral protease inhibitor used for the treatment of HIV infection. Unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia develops in up to 25% of patients receiving indinavir, prompting drug discontinuation and further clinical evaluation in some instances. We postulated that this side-effect is due to indinavir-mediated impairment of bilirubin UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) activity and would be most pronounced in individuals with reduced hepatic enzyme levels, as occurs in ≈10% of the population manifesting Gilbert's syndrome. This hypothesis was tested in vitro, in the Gunn rat model of UGT deficiency, and in HIV-infected patients with and without the Gilbert's polymorphism. Indinavir was found to competitively inhibit UGT enzymatic activity (KI = 183 μM) while concomitantly inducing hepatic bilirubin UGT mRNA and protein expression. Although oral indinavir increased plasma bilirubin levels in wild-type and heterozygous Gunn rats, the mean rise was significantly greater in the latter group of animals. Similarly, serum bilirubin increased by a mean of 0.34 mg/dl in indinavir-treated HIV patients lacking the Gilbert's polymorphism versus 1.45 mg/dl in those who were either heterozygous or homozygous for the mutant allele. Whereas saquinavir also competitively inhibits UGT activity, this drug has not been associated with hyperbilirubinemia, most likely because of the higher KI (360 μM) and substantially lower therapeutic levels as compared with indinavir. Taken together, these findings indicate that elevations in serum-unconjugated bilirubin associated with indinavir treatment result from direct inhibition of bilirubin-conjugating activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Primary human lymphedema (Milroy's disease), characterized by a chronic and disfiguring swelling of the extremities, is associated with heterozygous inactivating missense mutations of the gene encoding vascular endothelial growth factor C/D receptor (VEGFR-3). Here, we describe a mouse model and a possible treatment for primary lymphedema. Like the human patients, the lymphedema (Chy) mice have an inactivating Vegfr3 mutation in their germ line, and swelling of the limbs because of hypoplastic cutaneous, but not visceral, lymphatic vessels. Neuropilin (NRP)-2 bound VEGF-C and was expressed in the visceral, but not in the cutaneous, lymphatic endothelia, suggesting that it may participate in the pathogenesis of lymphedema. By using virus-mediated VEGF-C gene therapy, we were able to generate functional lymphatic vessels in the lymphedema mice. Our results suggest that growth factor gene therapy is applicable to human lymphedema and provide a paradigm for other diseases associated with mutant receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although mechanisms for chromosomal instability in tumors have been described in animal and in vitro models, little is known about these processes in man. To explore cytogenetic evolution in human tumors, chromosomal breakpoint profiles were constructed for 102 pancreatic carcinomas and 140 osteosarcomas, two tumor types characterized by extensive genomic instability. Cases with few chromosomal alterations showed a preferential clustering of breakpoints to the terminal bands, whereas tumors with many changes showed primarily interstitial and centromeric breakpoints. The terminal breakpoint frequency was negatively correlated to telomeric TTAGGG repeat length, and fluorescence in situ hybridization with telomeric TTAGGG probes consistently indicated shortened telomeres and >10% of chromosome ends lacking telomeric signals. Because telomeric dysfunction may lead to formation of unstable ring and dicentric chromosomes, mitotic figures were also evaluated. Anaphase bridges were found in all cases, and fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated extensive structural rearrangements of chromosomes, with terminal transferase detection showing fragmented DNA in 5–20% of interphase cells. Less than 2% of cells showed evidence of necrosis or apoptosis, and telomerase was expressed in the majority of cases. Telomeric dysfunction may thus trigger chromosomal fragmentation through persistent bridge-breakage events in pancreatic carcinomas and osteosarcomas, leading to a continuous reorganization of the tumor genome. Telomerase expression is not sufficient for completely stabilizing the chromosome complement but may be crucial for preventing complete genomic deterioration and maintaining cellular survival.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mechanistic basis for chloroquine resistance (CQR) in Plasmodium falciparum recently has been linked to the polymorphic gene pfcrt. Alleles associated with CQR in natural parasite isolates harbor threonine (T), as opposed to lysine (K) at amino acid 76. P. falciparum CQR strains of African and Southeast Asian origin carry pfcrt alleles encoding an amino acid haplotype of CVIET (residues 72–76), whereas most South American CQR strains studied carry an allele encoding an SVMNT haplotype; chloroquine-sensitive strains from malarious regions around the world carry a CVMNK haplotype. Upon investigating the origin of pfcrt alleles in Papua New Guinean (PNG) P. falciparum we found either the chloroquine-sensitive-associated CVMNK or CQR-associated SVMNT haplotypes previously seen in Brazilian isolates. Remarkably we did not find the CVIET haplotype observed in CQR strains from Southeast Asian regions more proximal to PNG. Further we found a previously undescribed CQR phenotype to be associated with the SVMNT haplotype from PNG and South America. This CQR phenotype is significantly less responsive to verapamil chemosensitization compared with the effect associated with the CVIET haplotype. Consistent with this, we observed that verapamil treatment of P. falciparum isolates carrying pfcrt SVMNT is associated with an attenuated increase in digestive vacuole pH relative to CVIET pfcrt-carrying isolates. These data suggest a key role for pH-dependent changes in hematin receptor concentration in the P. falciparum CQR mechanism. Our findings also suggest that P. falciparum CQR has arisen through multiple evolutionary pathways associated with pfcrt K76T.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurotransmitters can accelerate HIV-1 replication in vitro, leading us to examine whether differences in autonomic nervous system (ANS) activity might promote residual HIV-1 replication in patients treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy. Patients who showed constitutively high levels of ANS activity before highly active antiretroviral therapy experienced poorer suppression of plasma viral load and poorer CD4+ T cell recovery over 3–11 months of therapy. ANS activity was not related to demographic or behavioral characteristics that might influence pathogenesis. However, the ANS neurotransmitter norepinephrine enhanced replication of both CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic strains of HIV-1 in vitro via chemokine receptor up-regulation and enhanced viral gene expression, suggesting that neural activity may directly promote residual viral replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The surface glycoprotein of the Lassa virus, a member of the arenaviridae family, is synthesized as a 76-kDa precursor (GP-C) that is posttranslationally cleaved into an N-terminal 44-kDa subunit and a C-terminal membrane-anchored 36-kDa subunit. Cleavage occurs at the C-terminal end of the unusual recognition motif R-R-L-L. We show here that GP-C is cleaved in the endoplasmic reticulum by the cellular subtilase SKI-1/S1P, an enzyme that has so far been observed to be involved in cholesterol metabolism. Furthermore, we present evidence that only cleaved glycoprotein is incorporated into virions and that this is necessary for the formation of infectious virus. To our knowledge, there have been no previous reports of this type of viral glycoprotein processing, one that may be an interesting target for antiviral therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It is estimated that nearly 2 billion people currently suffer from latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. Although the key front-line antituberculosis drugs are effective in treating individuals with acute tuberculosis, these drugs are ineffective in eliminating M. tuberculosis during the persistent stages of latent infection. Consequently, therapeutics that directly target persistent bacilli are urgently needed. We have conducted a global analysis on a group of regulatory determinants that may play a role in M. tuberculosis virulence, and identified a two-component response regulator whose expression is required for entrance into and maintenance of persistent infection. Inactivation of this response regulator, Rv0981 (termed here mprA for mycobacterial persistence regulator), affected M. tuberculosis H37Rv growth in vivo in an organ- and infection stage-specific fashion. These results indicate that two-component systems are important for adaptation of the tubercle bacillus during stages of persistent infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An increasing number of microbial genomes have been completely sequenced, and the identified genes are categorized based on their homology to genes of known function. However, the function of a large number of genes cannot be determined on this basis alone. Here, we describe a technique, transposon site hybridization (TraSH), which allows rapid functional characterization by identifying the complete set of genes required for growth under different conditions. TraSH combines high-density insertional mutagenesis with microarray mapping of pools of mutants. We have made large pools of independent transposon mutants in mycobacteria by using a mariner-based transposon and efficient phage transduction. By using TraSH, we have defined the set of genes required for growth of Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette–Guérin on minimal but not rich medium. Genes of both known and unknown functions were identified. Of the genes with known functions, nearly all were involved in amino acid biosynthesis. TraSH is a powerful method for categorizing gene function that should be applicable to a variety of microorganisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We describe here the identification and properties of SCH-C (SCH 351125), a small molecule inhibitor of HIV-1 entry via the CCR5 coreceptor. SCH-C, an oxime–piperidine compound, is a specific CCR5 antagonist as determined in multiple receptor binding and signal transduction assays. This compound specifically inhibits HIV-1 infection mediated by CCR5 in U-87 astroglioma cells but has no effect on infection of CXCR4-expressing cells. SCH-C has broad and potent antiviral activity in vitro against primary HIV-1 isolates that use CCR5 as their entry coreceptor, with mean 50% inhibitory concentrations ranging between 0.4 and 9 nM. Moreover, SCH-C strongly inhibits the replication of an R5-using HIV-1 isolate in SCID-hu Thy/Liv mice. SCH-C has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile in rodents and primates with an oral bioavailability of 50–60% and a serum half-life of 5–6 h. On the basis of its novel mechanism of action, potent antiviral activity, and in vivo pharmacokinetic profile, SCH-C is a promising new candidate for therapeutic intervention of HIV infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RpoS and RpoN are two alternative sigma factors typically associated with general stress responses in bacteria. To date, there has been no experimental evidence that RpoS and RpoN can directly control the expression of one another. Herein, using a combined strategy of gene disruption and genetic complementation targeting rpoN and rpoS in Borrelia burgdorferi strain 297, we describe a regulatory network for B. burgdorferi. In this network, RpoN controls the expression of RpoS, which, in turn, governs the expression of two important membrane lipoproteins, outer surface protein C and decorin-binding protein A, and likely other proteins of B. burgdorferi. Our findings provide a foundation for elucidating further key regulatory networks that potentially impact many aspects of B. burgdorferi's parasitic strategy, host range, and virulence expression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A life-long turnover of sensory and interneuronal populations has been documented in the olfactory pathways of both vertebrates and invertebrates, creating a situation where the axons of new afferent and interneuronal populations must insert into a highly specialized glomerular neuropil. A dense serotonergic innervation of the primary olfactory processing areas where these neurons synapse also is a consistent feature across species. Prior studies in lobsters have shown that serotonin promotes the branching of olfactory projection neurons. This paper presents evidence that serotonin also regulates the proliferation and survival of projection neurons in lobsters, and that the serotonergic effects are associated with a transient uptake of serotonin into newborn neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Naturally occurring variations in maternal licking/grooming influence neural development and are transmitted from mother to female offspring. We found that the induction of maternal behavior in virgin females through constant exposure to pups (pup sensitization) was significantly shorter in the offspring of High compared with Low licking/grooming mothers, suggesting differences in maternal responsivity. In randomly selected females screened for individual differences in maternal responsivity and subsequently mated, there was a significant and negative correlation (r = −0.73) between the latency to exhibit maternal behavior in the pup sensitization paradigm and the frequency of pup licking/grooming during lactation. Females that were more maternally responsive to pups and that showed increased levels of pup licking/grooming also showed significantly higher oxytocin receptor levels in the medial preoptic area, the lateral septum, the central nucleus (n.) of the amygdala, the paraventricular n. of the hypothalamus, and the bed n. of the stria terminalis. Intracerebroventricular administration of an oxytocin receptor antagonist to mothers on postpartum day 3 completely eliminated the differences in pup licking/grooming, suggesting that differences in oxytocin receptor levels are functionally related to maternal behavior. Finally, estrogen treatment of virgin females significantly increased oxytocin receptor binding in the medial preoptic area and lateral septum of female offspring of High, but not Low, licking/grooming mothers. These findings suggest that maternal licking/grooming influences the development of estrogen sensitivity in brain regions that regulate maternal behavior, providing a potential mechanism for the intergenerational transmission of individual differences in maternal behavior.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Members of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) class of glutamate receptors (NMDARs) are critical for development, synaptic transmission, learning and memory; they are targets of pathological disorders in the central nervous system. NMDARs are phosphorylated by both serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases. Here, we demonstrate that cyclin dependent kinase-5 (Cdk5) associates with and phosphorylates NR2A subunits at Ser-1232 in vitro and in intact cells. Moreover, we show that roscovitine, a selective Cdk5 inhibitor, blocks both long-term potentiation induction and NMDA-evoked currents in rat CA1 hippocampal neurons. These results suggest that Cdk5 plays a key role in synaptic transmission and plasticity through its up-regulation of NMDARs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Exo–endocytotic turnover of synaptic vesicles (SVs) at synapses between hippocampal neurons in culture was examined by electron microscopy (EM). We carried out photoconversion (PC) of the fluorescent endocytotic marker FM 1-43 by using 3,3′-diaminobenzidine to convert the dye signal into an electron-dense product. Electron-dense products were located almost exclusively in SVs, whose densities were bimodally distributed in two sharply demarcated populations, PC-positive (PC+) and PC-negative (PC−). The median densities of these populations did not vary with the proportion of vesicles stained within a presynaptic terminal (bouton). The proportion of PC+ SVs remained constant across consecutive thin sections of single boutons, but varied greatly from one bouton to another, indicating marked heterogeneity in exo-endocytotic activity. Our experiments indicated that only a minority of SVs were stained in most boutons after stimuli known to cause complete turnover of the functional vesicular pool. A direct spatial correlation was found between FM 1-43 fluorescent spots seen with light microscopy and PC+ boutons by EM. The correlation was clearer in isolated boutons than in clusters of boutons. Photoconversion in combination with FM dyes allows clarification of important aspects of vesicular traffic in central nervous system nerve terminals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The treatment of brain diseases with gene therapy requires the gene to be expressed throughout the central nervous system, and this is possible by using gene targeting technology that delivers the gene across the blood–brain barrier after i.v. administration of a nonviral formulation of the gene. The plasmid DNA is targeted to brain with pegylated immunoliposomes (PILs) using a targeting ligand such as a peptidomimetic mAb, which binds to a transporting receptor on the blood–brain barrier. The present studies adapt the PIL gene targeting technology to the mouse by using the rat 8D3 mAb to the mouse transferrin receptor. Tissue-specific expression in brain and peripheral organs of different exogenous genes (β-galactosidase, luciferase) is examined at 1–3 days after i.v. injection in adult mice of the exogenous gene packaged in the interior of 8D3-PIL. The expression plasmid is driven either by a broadly expressed promoter, simian virus 40, or by a brain-specific promoter taken from the 5′ flanking sequence of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene. The transgene is expressed in both brain and peripheral tissues when the simian virus 40 promoter is used, but the expression of the exogenous gene is confined to the brain when the transgene is under the influence of the brain-specific GFAP promoter. Confocal microscopy colocalizes immunoreactive bacterial β-galactosidase with immunoreactive GFAP in brain astrocytes. These studies indicate that tissue-specific gene expression in brain is possible after the i.v. administration of a nonviral vector with the combined use of gene targeting technology and tissue-specific gene promoters.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By using blocked and rapid event-related functional MRI studies of memory, we explored the implications of using rest periods as a baseline condition in functional MRI studies. Activity in the medial temporal lobe (as well as in other brain regions) was substantially higher during rest than during several alternative baseline conditions. The effect of this elevated activity during rest was to reduce, eliminate, or even reverse the sign of the activity during task conditions relevant to memory functions. The results demonstrate that periods of rest are associated with significant cognitive activity and, therefore, provide a nonoptimal baseline for memory tasks. These results were observed not only when relatively long blocks of rest were used (experiment 1), but also when rest consisted of the short null trials typically used in rapid event-related designs (experiment 2). The findings have important implications for the design and interpretation of a wide range of fMRI studies of cognition.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Functional recovery after stroke has been associated with brain plasticity; however, the exact relationship is unknown. We performed behavioral tests, functional MRI, and histology in a rat stroke model to assess the correlation between temporal changes in sensorimotor function, brain activation patterns, cerebral ischemic damage, and cerebrovascular reactivity. Unilateral stroke induced a large ipsilateral infarct and acute dysfunction of the contralateral forelimb, which significantly recovered at later stages. Forelimb impairment was accompanied by loss of stimulus-induced activation in the ipsilesional sensorimotor cortex; however, local tissue and perfusion were only moderately affected and cerebrovascular reactivity was preserved in this area. At 3 days after stroke, extensive activation-induced responses were detected in the contralesional hemisphere. After 14 days, we found reduced involvement of the contralesional hemisphere, and significant responses in the infarction periphery. Our data suggest that limb dysfunction is related to loss of brain activation in the ipsilesional sensorimotor cortex and that restoration of function is associated with biphasic recruitment of peri- and contralesional functional fields in the brain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In many regions of the brain, including the mammalian cortex, the magnitude and direction of activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength depend on the frequency of presynaptic stimulation (synaptic plasticity), as well as the history of activity at those synapses (metaplasticity). We present a model of a molecular mechanism of bidirectional synaptic plasticity based on the observation that long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) and long-term synaptic depression (LTD) correlate with the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of sites on the α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit protein GluR1. The primary assumption of the model, for which there is wide experimental support, is that postsynaptic calcium concentration and consequent activation of calcium-dependent protein kinases and phosphatases are the triggers for the induction of LTP/LTD. As calcium influx through the n-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor plays a fundamental role in the induction of LTP/LTD, changes in the properties of NMDA receptor-mediated calcium influx will dramatically affect activity-dependent synaptic plasticity (metaplasticity). We demonstrate that experimentally observed metaplasticity can be accounted for by activity-dependent regulation of NMDA receptor subunit composition and function. Our model produces a frequency-dependent LTP/LTD curve with a sliding synaptic modification threshold similar to what has been proposed theoretically by Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro and observed experimentally.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neural mechanisms for representing complex communication sounds must solve the problem of encoding multiple and potentially overlapping signals. Birdsong provides an excellent model for such processing, in that many songbird species produce multiple song types. Although auditory song representations in single song type species have been studied, how song is represented in the brains of species that sing multiple song types remains unknown. Here we examine song type representations in swamp sparrows (Melospiza georgiana), a multiple song type species, by making in vivo intracellular recordings from the telencephalic nucleus HVc, the major auditory-vocal interface in the songbird brain. These recordings show that single HVc relay neurons often generate action potentials to playback of only a single song type, even though synaptic inputs on these cells can be activated by playback of other song types in the bird's repertoire and songs of other birds. These subthreshold response patterns suggest that the song evoked action potential discharge of a single relay neuron is more selective than its presynaptic network. One component of this presynaptic network is likely to be in HVc, because multiple recordings from single birds show that different relay neurons can respond best to different song types, whereas single interneurons can generate action potentials to all song types in the bird's repertoire. These results show that single HVc neurons can generate song type-specific action potential responses, a feature that may facilitate the selective auditory encoding of multiple learned vocalizations in a single brain area.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Huntington's disease (HD) mutation is a polyglutamine expansion in the N-terminal region of huntingtin (N-htt). How neurons die in HD is unclear. Mutant N-htt aggregates in neurons in the HD brain; expression of mutant N-htt in vitro causes cell death. Other in vitro studies show that proteolysis by caspase 3 could be important in regulating mutant N-htt function, but there has been no direct evidence for caspase 3-cleaved N-htt fragments in brain. Here, we show that N-htt fragments consistent with the size produced by caspase 3 cleavage in vitro are resident in the cortex, striatum, and cerebellum of normal and adult onset HD brain and are similar in size to the fragments seen after exogenous expression of human huntingtin in mouse clonal striatal neurons. HD brain extracts treated with active caspase 3 had increased levels of N-htt fragments. Compared with the full-length huntingtin, the caspase 3-cleaved N-htt fragments, especially the mutant fragment, preferentially segregated with the membrane fraction. Partial proteolysis of the human caspase 3-cleaved N-htt fragment by calpain occurred in vitro and resulted in smaller N-terminal products; products of similar size appeared when mouse brain protein extracts were treated with calpain. Results support the idea that sequential proteolysis by caspase 3 and calpain may regulate huntingtin function at membranes and produce N-terminal mutant fragments that aggregate and cause cellular dysfunction in HD.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of central glucocorticoid receptors caused by the stress that is associated with a learning task facilitates storage of the acquired information. The molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon is entirely unknown. Glucocorticoid receptors can influence transcription both through DNA binding-dependent and -independent mechanisms. To assess the importance of these two modes of action for spatial memory, we here used male mutant mice in which homodimerization and DNA binding of the glucocorticoid receptor is largely prevented (GRdim/dim) while protein–protein interactions still can take place. These mice showed a selective impairment of spatial memory in the water maze. Locomotion and anxiety-related parameters measured in an open field and a light/dark preference task were comparable for mutant and control mice. Mutant mice released more corticosterone than control mice under basal resting conditions and in response to swimming, which could have influenced memory processes of the mice. However, mimicking the task-related increase in corticosterone by supplementary injection of corticosterone (250 μg/kg, i.p.) in adrenalectomized mice, resulting in equal plasma corticosterone concentrations in both genotypes, improved spatial memory of control mice but had no effect on mutant mice. These findings suggest that task-related facilitating effects of corticosterone on spatial memory indeed depend on DNA binding of the glucocorticoid receptor rather than on protein–protein interactions of the receptor with other transcription factors. Although it cannot be excluded that both processes are involved in a coordinated way, interrupting the DNA-binding capacity of the receptor is sufficient to induce impairment.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Stress-induced structural remodeling in the adult hippocampus, involving debranching and shortening of dendrites and suppression of neurogenesis, provides a cellular basis for understanding the impairment of neural plasticity in the human hippocampus in depressive illness. Accordingly, reversal of structural remodeling may be a desirable goal for antidepressant therapy. The present study investigated the effect of tianeptine, a modified tricyclic antidepressant, in the chronic psychosocial stress model of adult male tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri), a model with high validity for research on the pathophysiology of major depression. Animals were subjected to a 7-day period of psychosocial stress to elicit stress-induced endocrine and central nervous alterations before the onset of daily oral administration of tianeptine (50 mg/kg). The psychosocial stress continued throughout the treatment period of 28 days. Brain metabolite concentrations were determined in vivo by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus was quantified by using BrdUrd immunohistochemistry, and hippocampal volume was measured post mortem. Chronic psychosocial stress significantly decreased in vivo concentrations of N-acetyl-aspartate (−13%), creatine and phosphocreatine (−15%), and choline-containing compounds (−13%). The proliferation rate of the granule precursor cells in the dentate gyrus was reduced (−33%). These stress effects were prevented by the simultaneous administration of tianeptine yielding normal values. In stressed animals treated with tianeptine, hippocampal volume increased above the small decrease produced by stress alone. These findings provide a cellular and neurochemical basis for evaluating antidepressant treatments with regard to possible reversal of structural changes in brain that have been reported in depressive disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The purpose of this study was to determine the involvement of the p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and induction of p21waf1/cip1 in the antiproliferative effects of nitric oxide (NO) on rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMC). NO, like α-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), interferes with cell proliferation by inhibiting ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) and, therefore, polyamine synthesis. S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine or (Z)-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-aminoethyl)-amino]-diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate inhibited RASMC growth at concentrations as low as 3 μM, and DFMO elicited effects at concentrations of 100 μM or greater. The cytostatic effect of NO and DFMO was prevented by the MAPK kinase 1/2 inhibitors PD 098,059 or U0126. This finding suggests that the p42/p44 MAPK pathway is involved in the inhibition of RASMC proliferation by NO. Western blot analysis revealed that treatment of RASMC with NO or DFMO leads to activation of p42/p44 MAPK and induction of p21waf1/cip1. This effect was prevented by MAPK kinase 1/2 inhibitors, suggesting that induction of p21waf1/cip1 depended on activation of p42/p44. Moreover, activation of p42/p44 and induction of p21waf1/cip1 were prevented by exogenous putrescine but not ornithine, suggesting this effect was due to the inhibition of ODC by NO or DFMO. Finally, activation of p42/p44 MAPK and induction of p21waf1/cip1 were cGMP-independent. Neither 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo[4,3-α]quinoxalin-1-one nor zaprinast influenced the cytostatic effect of NO or DFMO or their ability to activate these signal transduction pathways. These observations suggest that inhibition of ODC and accompanying putrescine production are the underlying mechanisms by which NO and DFMO activate the MAPK pathway to promote induction of p21waf1/cip1 and consequent inhibition of cell proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Frequenin, a Ca2+-binding protein, has previously been implicated in the regulation of neurotransmission, possibly by affecting ion channel function. Here, we provide direct evidence that frequenin is a potent and specific modulator of Kv4 channels, the principal molecular components of subthreshold activating A-type K+ currents. Frequenin increases Kv4.2 current amplitudes (partly by enhancing surface expression of Kv4.2 proteins) and it slows the inactivation time course in a Ca2+-dependent manner. It also accelerates recovery from inactivation. Closely related Ca2+-binding proteins, such as neurocalcin and visinin-like protein (VILIP)-1 have no such effects. Specificity for Kv4 currents is suggested because frequenin does not modulate Kv1.4 or Kv3.4 currents. Frequenin has negligible effects on Kv4.1 current inactivation time course. By using chimeras made from Kv4.2 and Kv4.1 subunits, we determined that the differential effects of frequenin are mediated by means of the Kv4 N terminus. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrates that frequenin and Kv4.2 channel proteins are coexpressed in similar neuronal populations and have overlapping subcellular localizations in brain. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that a physical interaction occurs between these two proteins in brain membranes. Together, our data provide strong support for the concept that frequenin may be an important Ca2+-sensitive regulatory component of native A-type K+ currents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The plasma level of NOx, i.e., the sum of NO2− and NO3−, is frequently used to assess NO bioavailability in vivo. However, little is known about the kinetics of NO conversion to these metabolites under physiological conditions. Moreover, plasma nitrite recently has been proposed to represent a delivery source for intravascular NO. We therefore sought to investigate in humans whether changes in NOx concentration are a reliable marker for endothelial NO production and whether physiological concentrations of nitrite are vasoactive. NO2− and NO3− concentrations were measured in blood sampled from the antecubital vein and brachial artery of 24 healthy volunteers. No significant arterial-venous gradient was observed for either NO2− or NO3−. Endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) stimulation with acetylcholine (1–10 μg/min) dose-dependently augmented venous NO2− levels by maximally 71%. This effect was paralleled by an almost 4-fold increase in forearm blood flow (FBF), whereas an equieffective dose of papaverine produced no change in venous NO2−. Intraarterial infusion of NO2− had no effect on FBF. NOS inhibition (NG-monomethyl-l-arginine; 4–12 μmol/min) dose-dependently reduced basal NO2− and FBF and blunted acetylcholine-induced vasodilation and NO release by more than 80% and 90%, respectively. In contrast, venous NO3− and total NOx remained unchanged as did systemic arterial NO2− and NO3− levels during all these interventions. FBF and NO release showed a positive association (r = 0.85; P < 0.001). These results contradict the current paradigm that plasma NO3− and/or total NOx are generally useful markers of endogenous NO production and demonstrate that only NO2− reflects acute changes in regional eNOS activity. Our results further demonstrate that physiological levels of nitrite are vasodilator-inactive.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The fungal endophytes Neotyphodium lolii and Neotyphodium sp. Lp1 from perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne), and related endophytes in other grasses, produce the ergopeptine toxin ergovaline, among other alkaloids, while also increasing plant fitness and resistance to biotic and abiotic stress. In the related fungus, Claviceps purpurea, the biosynthesis of ergopeptines requires the activities of two peptide synthetases, LPS1 and LPS2. A peptide synthetase gene hypothesized to be important for ergopeptine biosynthesis was identified in C. purpurea by its clustering with another ergot alkaloid biosynthetic gene, dmaW. Sequence analysis conducted independently of the research presented here indicates that this gene encodes LPS1 [Tudzynski, P., Holter, K., Correia, T., Arntz, C., Grammel, N. & Keller, U. (1999) Mol. Gen. Genet. 261, 133–141]. We have cloned a similar peptide synthetase gene from Neotyphodium lolii and inactivated it by gene knockout in Neotyphodium sp. Lp1. The resulting strain retained full compatibility with its perennial ryegrass host plant as assessed by immunoblotting of tillers and quantitative PCR. However, grass–endophyte associations containing the knockout strain did not produce detectable quantities of ergovaline as analyzed by HPLC with fluorescence detection. Disruption of this gene provides a means to manipulate the accumulation of ergovaline in endophyte-infected grasses for the purpose of determining the roles of ergovaline in endophyte-associated traits and, potentially, for ameliorating toxicoses in livestock.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tetrapyrroles such as chlorophylls and bacteriochlorophylls play a fundamental role in the energy absorption and transduction activities of photosynthetic organisms. Because of these molecules, however, photosynthetic organisms are also prone to photooxidative damage. They had to evolve highly efficient strategies to control tetrapyrrole biosynthesis and to prevent the accumulation of free intermediates that potentially are extremely destructive when illuminated. In higher plants, the metabolic flow of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis is regulated at the step of δ-aminolevulinic acid synthesis. This regulation previously has been attributed to feedback control of Glu tRNA reductase, the first enzyme committed to tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, by heme. With the recent discovery of chlorophyll intermediates acting as signals that control both nuclear gene activities and tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, it seems likely that heme is not the only regulator of this pathway. A genetic approach was used to identify additional factors involved in the control of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. In Arabidopsis thaliana, we have found a negative regulator of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, FLU, which operates independently of heme and seems to selectively affect only the Mg2+ branch of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. The identity of this protein was established by map-based cloning and sequencing the FLU gene. FLU is a nuclear-encoded plastid protein that, after import and processing, becomes tightly associated with plastid membranes. It is unrelated to any of the enzymes known to be involved in tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. Its predicted features suggest that FLU mediates its regulatory effect through interaction with enzymes involved in chlorophyll synthesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transgenic Brassica napus plants overexpressing AtNHX1, a vacuolar Na+/H+ antiport from Arabidopsis thaliana, were able to grow, flower, and produce seeds in the presence of 200 mM sodium chloride. Although the transgenic plants grown in high salinity accumulated sodium up to 6% of their dry weight, growth of the these plants was only marginally affected by the high salt concentration. Moreover, seed yields and the seed oil quality were not affected by the high salinity of the soil. Our results demonstrate the potential use of these transgenic plants for agricultural use in saline soils. Our findings, showing that the modification of a single trait significantly improved the salinity tolerance of this crop plant, suggest that with a combination of breeding and transgenic plants it could be possible to produce salt-tolerant crops with far fewer target traits than had been anticipated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Arabidopsis opr3 mutant is defective in the isoform of 12-oxo-phytodienoate (OPDA) reductase required for jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis. Oxylipin signatures of wounded opr3 leaves revealed the absence of detectable 3R,7S-JA as well as altered levels of its cyclopentenone precursors OPDA and dinor OPDA. In contrast to JA-insensitive coi1 plants and to the fad3 fad7 fad8 mutant lacking the fatty acid precursors of JA synthesis, opr3 plants exhibited strong resistance to the dipteran Bradysia impatiens and the fungus Alternaria brassicicola. Analysis of transcript profiles in opr3 showed the wound induction of genes previously known to be JA-dependent, suggesting that cyclopentenones could fulfill some JA roles in vivo. Treating opr3 plants with exogenous OPDA powerfully up-regulated several genes and disclosed two distinct downstream signal pathways, one through COI1, the other via an electrophile effect of the cyclopentenones. We conclude that the jasmonate family cyclopentenone OPDA (most likely together with dinor OPDA) regulates gene expression in concert with JA to fine-tune the expression of defense genes. More generally, resistance to insect and fungal attack can be observed in the absence of JA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A 5-kDa polypeptide was isolated from tobacco leaves that induced a rapid alkalinization of the culture medium of tobacco suspension-cultured cells and a concomitant activation of an intracellular mitogen-activated protein kinase. An N-terminal sequence was obtained, and a cDNA coding for the 49-aa polypeptide was isolated from a tobacco cDNA library. The cDNA encoded a preproprotein of 115 amino acids that contained the polypeptide at its C terminus. A search among known expressed sequence tags revealed that genes encoding Rapid ALkalinization Factor (RALF) preproproteins were present in various tissues and organs from 16 species of plants representing 9 families. A tomato homolog of the polypeptide was synthesized and, when supplied to germinating tomato and Arabidopsis seeds, it caused an arrest of root growth and development. Although its specific role in growth has not been established, the polypeptide joins the ranks of the increasing number of polypeptide hormones that are known to regulate plant stress, growth, and development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The spatial display of cellular ligands and receptors is important for cell adhesion and communication. Two approaches that emphasize developing selective methods to dissect, modify, and control receptor–ligand interactions at the cellular interface are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Solitons are localized concentrations of field energy, resulting from a balance of dispersive and nonlinear effects. They are ubiquitous in the natural sciences. In recent years optical solitons have arisen in new and exciting contexts that differ in many ways from the original context of coherent propagation in a uniform medium. We review recent developments in incoherent spatial solitons and in gap solitons in periodic structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The climate of the Atlantic sector exhibits considerable variability on a wide range of time scales. A substantial portion is associated with the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), a hemispheric meridional oscillation in atmospheric mass with centers of action near Iceland and over the subtropical Atlantic. NAO-related impacts on winter climate extend from Florida to Greenland and from northwestern Africa over Europe far into northern Asia. Over the last 3 decades, the phase of the NAO has been shifting from mostly negative to mostly positive index values. Much remains to be learned about the mechanisms that produce such low frequency changes in the North Atlantic climate, but it seems increasingly likely that human activities are playing a significant role.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the boundary layers around the edges of images, basic nonlinear parabolic equations for image intensity used in image processing assume a special degenerate asymptotic form. An asymptotic self-similar solution to this degenerate equation is obtained in an explicit form. The solution reveals a substantially nonlinear effect—the formation of sharp steps at the edges of the images, leading to edge enhancement. Positions of the steps and the time shift parameter cannot be determined by direct construction of a self-similar solution; they depend on the initial condition of the pre-self-similar solution. The free-boundary problem is formulated describing the image intensity evolution in the boundary layer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Eighty years ago, Ramanujan conjectured and proved some striking congruences for the partition function modulo powers of 5, 7, and 11. Until recently, only a handful of further such congruences were known. Here we report that such congruences are much more widespread than was previously known, and we describe the theoretical framework that appears to explain every known Ramanujan-type congruence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genetic structure of three contiguous wild chimpanzee communities in West Africa was examined to determine the extent to which the community, the mixed-sex social unit of chimpanzees, represents a closed reproductive unit. An analysis of paternity for 41 offspring resulted in 34 cases of paternity assignment to an adult male belonging to the same community. Among the 14 offspring for which all potential within-community fathers have been tested, one likely case of extra-group paternity (EGP) has been identified, suggesting an incidence of EGP of 7%. This more extensive analysis contradicts a previous genetic study of the Taï chimpanzees that inferred 50% extra-group fathers. We suggest, based on direct comparison of results for 33 individuals at 1 microsatellite locus and direct comparison of paternity assignments for 11 offspring, that the error rate in the previous study was too high to produce accurate genotypes and assignments of paternity and hence caused the false inference of a high rate of EGP. Thus, the community is the primary but not exclusive unit for reproduction in wild chimpanzees, and females do not typically reproduce with outside males. Despite the inferred low level of gene flow from extra-community males, relatedness levels among the community males are not significantly higher than among community females, and the distribution of genetic relationships within the group suggests that, rather than a primarily male-bonded social structure, the group is bonded through relationships between males and females. Kinship may explain cooperative behaviors directed against other communities, but is unlikely to explain the high levels of affiliation and cooperation seen for male within-community interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Archaeological wood in ancient tombs is found usually with extensive degradation, limiting what can be learned about the diet, environment, health, and cultural practices of the tomb builders and occupants. Within Tumulus Midas Mound at Gordion, Turkey, thought to be the tomb of the Phrygian King Midas of the 8th century B.C., we applied a stable nitrogen isotope test to infer the paleodiet of the king and determine the nitrogen sources for the fungal community that decomposed the wooden tomb, cultural objects, and human remains. Here we show through analysis of the coffin, furniture, and wooden tomb structure that the principal degrader, a soft-rot fungus, mobilized the king's highly 15N-enriched nutrients, values indicative of a diet rich in meat, to decay wood throughout the tomb. It is also evident from the δ15N values of the degraded wood that the nitrogen needed for the decay of many of the artifacts in the tomb came from multiple sources, mobilized at potentially different episodes of decay. The redistribution of nutrients by the fungus was restricted by constraints imposed by the cellular structure of the different wood materials that apparently were used intentionally in the construction to minimize decay.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Historical sources indicate that the evangelist Luke was born in Syria, died in Greece, and then his body was transferred to Constantinople, and from there to Padua, Italy. To understand whether there is any biological evidence supporting a Syrian origin of the Padua body traditionally attributed to Luke, or a replacement in Greece or Turkey, the mtDNA was extracted from two teeth and its control region was cloned and typed. The sequence determined in multiple clones is an uncommon variant of a set of alleles that are common in the Mediterranean region. We also collected and typed modern samples from Syria and Greece. By comparison with these population samples, and with samples from Anatolia that were already available in the literature, we could reject the hypothesis that the body belonged to a Greek, rather than a Syrian, individual. However, the probability of an origin in the area of modern Turkey was only insignificantly lower than the probability of a Syrian origin. The genetic evidence is therefore compatible with the possibility that the body comes from Syria, but also with its replacement in Constantinople.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A core operation in speech production is the preparation of words from a semantic base. The theory of lexical access reviewed in this article covers a sequence of processing stages beginning with the speaker's focusing on a target concept and ending with the initiation of articulation. The initial stages of preparation are concerned with lexical selection, which is zooming in on the appropriate lexical item in the mental lexicon. The following stages concern form encoding, i.e., retrieving a word's morphemic phonological codes, syllabifying the word, and accessing the corresponding articulatory gestures. The theory is based on chronometric measurements of spoken word production, obtained, for instance, in picture-naming tasks. The theory is largely computationally implemented. It provides a handle on the analysis of multiword utterance production as well as a guide to the analysis and design of neuroimaging studies of spoken utterance production.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The 1999 outbreak of West Nile (WN) virus in the northeastern United States was the first known natural occurrence of this flavivirus in the Western Hemisphere. In 1999 and 2000, 82 independent Connecticut WN virus isolates were cultured from nine species of birds, five species of mosquitoes, and one striped skunk. Nucleotide sequences obtained from these isolates identified 30 genetic changes, compared with WN-NY99, in a 921-nt region of the viral genome beginning at nucleotide position 205 and ending at 1125. This region encodes portions of the nucleocapsid and envelope proteins and includes the entire coding regions for the premembrane and membrane proteins. Amino acid changes occurred at seven loci in six isolates relative to the WN-NY99 strain. Although 34 of the isolates showed sequences identical to the WN-NY99 isolate, we were able to show geographical-based clusters of mutations. In particular, 26 isolates were characterized by mutation of C to T at position 858. This group apparently originated in Stamford, CT and disseminated to sites located as far as 54 miles from Stamford. Sequences of WN virus isolated from both brain and heart tissues from the same avian host were identical in all 14 tested individual birds, suggesting that the mutations we have documented are real and not caused by culture, RNA extraction, or PCR procedures. We conclude that this portion of the viral genome will enable us to follow the geographical and temporal movement of variant WN virus strains as they adapt to North America.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The genetic structure of three contiguous wild chimpanzee communities in West Africa was examined to determine the extent to which the community, the mixed-sex social unit of chimpanzees, represents a closed reproductive unit. An analysis of paternity for 41 offspring resulted in 34 cases of paternity assignment to an adult male belonging to the same community. Among the 14 offspring for which all potential within-community fathers have been tested, one likely case of extra-group paternity (EGP) has been identified, suggesting an incidence of EGP of 7%. This more extensive analysis contradicts a previous genetic study of the Taï chimpanzees that inferred 50% extra-group fathers. We suggest, based on direct comparison of results for 33 individuals at 1 microsatellite locus and direct comparison of paternity assignments for 11 offspring, that the error rate in the previous study was too high to produce accurate genotypes and assignments of paternity and hence caused the false inference of a high rate of EGP. Thus, the community is the primary but not exclusive unit for reproduction in wild chimpanzees, and females do not typically reproduce with outside males. Despite the inferred low level of gene flow from extra-community males, relatedness levels among the community males are not significantly higher than among community females, and the distribution of genetic relationships within the group suggests that, rather than a primarily male-bonded social structure, the group is bonded through relationships between males and females. Kinship may explain cooperative behaviors directed against other communities, but is unlikely to explain the high levels of affiliation and cooperation seen for male within-community interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
X-ray structures of two enzymes in the sterol/isoprenoid biosynthesis pathway have been determined in a structural genomics pilot study. Mevalonate-5-diphosphate decarboxylase (MDD) is a single-domain α/β protein that catalyzes the last of three sequential ATP-dependent reactions which convert mevalonate to isopentenyl diphosphate. Isopentenyl disphosphate isomerase (IDI) is an α/β metalloenzyme that catalyzes interconversion of isopentenyl diphosphate and dimethylallyl diphosphate, which condense in the next step toward synthesis of sterols and a host of natural products. Homology modeling of related proteins and comparisons of the MDD and IDI structures with two other experimentally determined structures have shown that MDD is a member of the GHMP superfamily of small-molecule kinases and IDI is similar to the nudix hydrolases, which act on nucleotide diphosphatecontaining substrates. Structural models were produced for 379 proteins, encompassing a substantial fraction of both protein superfamilies. All three enzymes responsible for synthesis of isopentenyl diphosphate from mevalonate (mevalonate kinase, phosphomevalonate kinase, and MDD) share the same fold, catalyze phosphorylation of chemically similar substrates (MDD decarboxylation involves phosphorylation of mevalonate diphosphate), and seem to have evolved from a common ancestor. These structures and the structural models derived from them provide a framework for interpreting biochemical function and evolutionary relationships.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The trithorax genes encode an evolutionarily conserved family of proteins that function to maintain specific patterns of gene expression throughout cellular development. Members of this protein family contain a highly conserved 130- to 140-amino acid motif termed the SET domain. We report the purification and molecular identification of the subunits of a protein complex in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that includes the trithorax-related protein Set1. This protein complex, which we have named COMPASS (Complex Proteins Associated with Set1), consists of seven polypeptides ranging from 130 to 25 kDa. The same seven proteins were identified in COMPASS purified either by conventional biochemical chromatography or tandem-affinity tagging of the individual subunits of the complex. Null mutants missing any one of the six nonessential subunits of COMPASS grow more slowly than wild-type cells under normal conditions and demonstrate growth sensitivity to hydroxyurea. Furthermore, gene expression profiles of strains missing either of two nonessential subunits of COMPASS are altered in similar ways, suggesting these proteins have similar roles in gene expression in vivo. Molecular characterization of trithorax complexes will facilitate defining the role of this class of proteins in the regulation of gene expression and how their misregulation results in the development of human cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein kinases of the Akt and related serum- and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase (SGK) families are major downstream mediators of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase signaling to many cellular processes including metabolic flux, membrane trafficking, and apoptosis. Activation of these kinases is thought to occur at the plasma membrane through their serine and threonine phosphorylation by the phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1 (PDK1) protein kinase, which interacts with membrane 3′-polyphosphoinositides through its pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Here, we demonstrate that the SGK family member cytokine-independent survival kinase (CISK) binds strongly and selectively to the monophosphoinositide PI(3)P through its phox homology (PX) domain. Comparing native green fluorescent protein-CISK (EGFP-CISK) to a mutant EGFP-CISK (Y51A) that displays attenuated binding to PI(3)P reveals that this interaction is both necessary and sufficient for its localization to early endosome antigen (EEA1)-positive endosomes. Furthermore, early endosome association of expressed epitope-tagged CISK in COS cells directed by binding of its PX domain to PI(3)P is required for activation of the CISK protein kinase by both insulin-like growth factor-1 and epidermal growth factor. Taken together, these results reveal a critical role of endosomal PI(3)P in the signal transmission mechanism whereby this survival kinase is activated in response to PI3-kinase stimulation by growth factors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In mammalian cells, all small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) that guide rRNA modification are encoded within the introns of host genes. A database analysis of human box C/D snoRNAs revealed conservation of their intronic location, with a preference for 70–80 nt upstream of the 3′ splice site. Transfection experiments showed that synthesis of gas5-encoded U75 and U76 snoRNAs dropped significantly for mutant constructs possessing longer or shorter spacers between the snoRNA and the 3′ splice site. However, the position of the snoRNA did not affect splicing of the host intron. Substitution mutations within the spacer indicated that the length, but not the specific sequence, is important. A in vitro system that couples pre-mRNA splicing and processing of U75 has been developed. U75 synthesis in vitro depends on its box C and D sequences and requires an appropriate spacer length. Further mutational analyses both in vivo and in vitro, with subsequent mapping of the branch points, revealed that the critical distance is from the snoRNA coding region to the branch point, suggesting synergy between splicing and snoRNA release.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Oxidation of proteins by reactive oxygen species is associated with aging, oxidative stress, and many diseases. Although free and protein-bound methionine residues are particularly sensitive to oxidation to methionine sulfoxide derivatives, these oxidations are readily repaired by the action of methionine sulfoxide reductase (MsrA). To gain a better understanding of the biological roles of MsrA in metabolism, we have created a strain of mouse that lacks the MsrA gene. Compared with the wild type, this mutant: (i) exhibits enhanced sensitivity to oxidative stress (exposure to 100% oxygen); (ii) has a shorter lifespan under both normal and hyperoxic conditions; (iii) develops an atypical (tip-toe) walking pattern after 6 months of age; (iv) accumulates higher tissue levels of oxidized protein (carbonyl derivatives) under oxidative stress; and (v) is less able to up-regulate expression of thioredoxin reductase under oxidative stress. It thus seems that MsrA may play an important role in aging and neurological disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rearrangement of gene segments to generate antigen receptor coding regions depends on the RAG1/2 recombinase, which assembles a synaptic complex between two DNA signal sequences and then cleaves the DNA directly adjacent to the paired signals. After coupled cleavage of complementary signal sequences, virtually all of the cleaved signal ends remained associated with RAG1/2 in stable complexes. These signal end complexes were distinct from various precleavage RAG1/2 signal complexes in that they were resistant to treatment with heparin. A mammalian joining apparatus consisting of purified Ku70/86, XRCC4, and DNA ligase IV proteins was sufficient to join deproteinized cleaved ends, but retention of signal sequences within the signal end complex blocked access to the DNA ends and prevented their joining by these proteins. Sequestration of cleaved ends within the signal end complex would account for the persistence of these ends in the cell after cleavage and may explain why they do not normally activate the DNA-damage-dependent cell cycle checkpoint.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Galactose oxidase (EC 1.1.3.9) is a monomeric enzyme that contains a single copper ion and catalyses the stereospecific oxidation of primary alcohols to their corresponding aldehydes. The protein contains an unusual covalent thioether bond between a tyrosine, which acts as a radical center during the two-electron reaction, and a cysteine. The enzyme is produced in a precursor form lacking the thioether bond and also possessing an additional 17-aa pro-sequence at the N terminus. Previous work has shown that the aerobic addition of Cu2+ to the precursor is sufficient to generate fully processed mature enzyme. The structure of the precursor protein has been determined to 1.4 Å, revealing the location of the pro-sequence and identifying structural differences between the precursor and the mature protein. Structural alignment of the precursor and mature forms of galactose oxidase shows that five regions of main chain and some key residues of the active site differ significantly between the two forms. The precursor structure provides a starting point for modeling the chemistry of thioether bond formation and pro-sequence cleavage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
YC-1 [3-(5′-hydroxymethyl-2′furyl)-1-benzyl indazole] is an allosteric activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC). YC-1 increases the catalytic rate of the enzyme and sensitizes the enzyme toward its gaseous activators nitric oxide or carbon monoxide. In other studies the administration of YC-1 to experimental animals resulted in the inhibition of the platelet-rich thrombosis and a decrease of the mean arterial pressure, which correlated with increased cGMP levels. However, details of YC-1 interaction with sGC and enzyme activation are incomplete. Although evidence in the literature indicates that YC-1 activation of sGC is strictly heme-dependent, this report presents evidence for both heme-dependent and heme-independent activation of sGC by YC-1. The oxidation of the sGC heme by 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazole(4,3-a)quinoxalin-1-one completely inhibited the response to NO, but only partially attenuated activation by YC-1. We also observed activation by YC-1 of a mutant sGC, which lacks heme. These findings indicate that YC-1 activation of sGC can occur independently of heme, but that activation is substantially increased when the heme moiety is present in the enzyme.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Combinations of chemical and genetic approaches were used to study the function of divalent metal ions in cleavage of RNA by the ribozyme RNase P RNA. We show that different divalent metal ions have differential effects on cleavage site recognition and rescue of cleavage activity by mixing divalent metal ions that do not promote cleavage by themselves. We conclude that efficient and correct cleavage is the result of cooperativity between divalent metal ions bound at different sites in the RNase P RNA-substrate complex. Complementation of a mutant RNase P RNA phenotype as a result of divalent metal ion replacement is demonstrated also. This finding together with other data indicate that one of the metal ions involved in this cooperativity is positioned near the cleavage site. The possibility that the Mg2+/Ca2+ ratio might regulate the activity of biocatalysts that depend on RNA for activity is discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein farnesyltransferase (FTase) catalyzes the attachment of a farnesyl lipid group to the cysteine residue located in the C-terminal tetrapeptide of many essential signal transduction proteins, including members of the Ras superfamily. Farnesylation is essential both for normal functioning of these proteins, and for the transforming activity of oncogenic mutants. Consequently FTase is an important target for anti-cancer therapeutics. Several FTase inhibitors are currently undergoing clinical trials for cancer treatment. Here, we present the crystal structure of human FTase, as well as ternary complexes with the TKCVFM hexapeptide substrate, CVFM non-substrate tetrapeptide, and L-739,750 peptidomimetic with either farnesyl diphosphate (FPP), or a nonreactive analogue. These structures reveal the structural mechanism of FTase inhibition. Some CaaX tetrapeptide inhibitors are not farnesylated, and are more effective inhibitors than farnesylated CaaX tetrapeptides. CVFM and L-739,750 are not farnesylated, because these inhibitors bind in a conformation that is distinct from the TKCVFM hexapeptide substrate. This non-substrate binding mode is stabilized by an ion pair between the peptide N terminus and the α-phosphate of the FPP substrate. Conformational mapping calculations reveal the basis for the sequence specificity in the third position of the CaaX motif that determines whether a tetrapeptide is a substrate or non-substrate. The presence of β-branched amino acids in this position prevents formation of the non-substrate conformation; all other aliphatic amino acids in this position are predicted to form the non-substrate conformation, provided their N terminus is available to bind to the FPP α-phosphate. These results may facilitate further development of FTase inhibitors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RNA-binding proteins are central to posttranscriptional gene regulation and play an important role in a number of major human diseases. Cloning such proteins is a crucial but often difficult step in elucidating the biological function of RNA regulatory elements. To make it easier to clone proteins that specifically bind RNA elements of interest, we have developed a rapid and broadly applicable in vitro genetic selection method based on T7 phage display. Using hairpin II of U1 small nuclear RNA (U1hpII) or the 3′ stem loop of histone mRNA as bait, we could selectively amplify T7 phage that display either the spliceosomal protein U1A or the histone stem loop-binding protein from a lung cDNA phage library containing more than 107 independent clones. The use of U1hpII mutants with various affinities for U1A revealed that this method allows the selection even of proteins that bind their cognate RNA targets with relatively weak affinities (Kd as high as the micromolar range). Experiments with a mixture of recombinant phage displaying U1A or the closely related protein U2B" demonstrated that addition of a competitor RNA can suppress selection of a protein with a higher affinity for a given RNA target, thereby allowing the preferential amplification of a lower affinity protein. Together, these findings suggest that T7 phage display can be used to rapidly and selectively clone virtually any protein that binds a known RNA regulatory element, including those that bind with low affinity or that must compete for binding with other proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transcriptional repressors can be classified as short- or long-range, according to their range of activity. Functional analysis of identified short-range repressors has been carried out largely in transgenic Drosophila, but it is not known whether general properties of short-range repressors are evident in other types of assays. To study short-range transcriptional repressors in cultured cells, we created chimeric tetracycline repressors based on Drosophila transcriptional repressors Giant, Drosophila C-terminal-binding protein (dCtBP), and Knirps. We find that Giant and dCtBP are efficient repressors in Drosophila and mammalian cells, whereas Knirps is active only in insect cells. The restricted activity of Knirps, in contrast to that of Giant, suggests that not all short-range repressors possess identical activities, consistent with recent findings showing that short-range repressors act through multiple pathways. The mammalian repressor Kid is more effective than either Giant or dCtBP in mammalian cells but is inactive in Drosophila cells. These results indicate that species-specific factors are important for the function of the Knirps and Kid repressors. Giant and dCtBP repress reporter genes in a variety of contexts, including genes that were introduced by transient transfection, carried on episomal elements, or stably integrated. This broad activity indicates that the context of the target gene is not critical for the ability of short-range repressors to block transcription, in contrast to other repressors that act only on stably integrated genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several animal viruses inhibit host protein synthesis, but only some members of the picornavirus group are known to do so by cleaving translation initiation factor eIF4G. Here we report that infection of human CD4+ cells with HIV-1 also leads to proteolysis of eIF4G and profound inhibition of cellular translation. Purified HIV-1 protease directly cleaves eIF4GI at positions 678, 681, and 1086, separating the three domains of this initiation factor. Proteolysis of eIF4GI by HIV-1 protease, as with poliovirus 2A protease, inhibits protein synthesis directed by capped mRNAs but allows internal ribosome entry site-driven translation. These findings indicate that HIV-1, a member of retrovirus group, shares with picornaviruses the capacity to proteolyze eIF4G.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Internal initiation of translation can be mediated by specific internal ribosome entry site (IRES) elements that are located in certain mammalian and viral mRNA molecules. Thus far, these mammalian cellular and viral IRES elements have not been shown to function in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We report here that a recently discovered IRES located in the genome of cricket paralysis virus can direct the efficient translation of a second URA3 cistron in dicistronic mRNAs in S. cerevisiae, thereby conferring uracil-independent growth. Curiously, the IRES functions poorly in wild-type yeast but functions efficiently either in the presence of constitutive expression of the eIF2 kinase GCN2 or in cells that have two initiator tRNAmet genes disrupted. Both of these conditions have been shown to lower the amounts of ternary eIF2-GTP/initiator tRNAmet complexes. Furthermore, tRNAmet-independent initiation was also observed in translation-competent extracts prepared from S. cerevisiae in the presence of edeine, a compound that has been shown to interfere with start codon recognition by ribosomal subunits carrying ternary complexes. Therefore, the cricket paralysis virus IRES is likely to recruit ribosomes by internal initiation in S. cerevisiae in the absence of eIF2 and initiator tRNAmet, by the same mechanism of factor-independent ribosome recruitment used in mammalian cells. These findings will allow the use of yeast genetics to determine the mechanism of internal ribosome entry.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The family of the PII signal transduction proteins contains the most highly conserved signaling proteins in nature. The cyanobacterial PII-homologue transmits signals of the cellular nitrogen status and carbon status through phosphorylation of a seryl-residue. To identify the enzyme responsible for dephosphorylation of the phosphorylated PII protein in Synechocystis PCC 6803, prospective phosphatase encoding genes were inactivated by targeted insertion of kanamycin resistance cassettes. Disruption of ORF sll1771 generates a mutant unable to dephosphorylate PII under various experimental conditions. On the basis of conserved signature motifs, the sll1771 product (termed PphA) is a member of the protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) superfamily, which is characterized by Mg2+/Mn2+-dependent catalytic activity. Biochemical analysis of overexpressed and purified PphA confirms its PP2C-type enzymatic properties and demonstrated its reactivity toward the phosphorylated PII protein. Thus, PphA is the first protein phosphatase in Synechocystis PCC 6803 for which the physiological substrate and function is known.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The formation of heparan sulfate occurs within the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum–Golgi complex–trans-Golgi network by the concerted action of several glycosyltransferases, an epimerase, and multiple sulfotransferases. In this report, we have examined the location and interaction of tagged forms of five of the biosynthetic enzymes: galactosyltransferase I and glucuronosyltransferase I, required for the formation of the linkage region, and GlcNAc N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferase 1, uronosyl 5-epimerase, and uronosyl 2-O-sulfotransferase, the first three enzymes involved in the modification of the chains. All of the enzymes colocalized with the medial-Golgi marker α-mannosidase II. To study whether any of these enzymes interacted with each other, they were relocated to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by replacing their cytoplasmic N-terminal tails with an ER retention signal derived from the cytoplasmic domain of human invariant chain (p33). Relocating either galactosyltransferase I or glucuronosyltransferase I had no effect on the other's location or activity. However, relocating the epimerase to the ER caused a parallel redistribution of the 2-O-sulfotransferase. Transfected epimerase was also located in the ER in a cell mutant lacking the 2-O-sulfotransferase, but moved to the Golgi when the cells were transfected with 2-O-sulfotransferase cDNA. Epimerase activity was depressed in the mutant, but increased upon restoration of 2-O-sulfotransferase, suggesting that their physical association was required for both epimerase stability and translocation to the Golgi. These findings provide in vivo evidence for the formation of complexes among enzymes involved in heparan sulfate biosynthesis. The functional significance of these complexes may relate to the rapidity of heparan sulfate formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Changing enzymatic function through genetic engineering still presents a challenge to molecular biologists. Here we present an example in which changing the oligomerization state of an enzyme changes its function. Type IIs restriction endonucleases such as AlwI usually fold into two separate domains: a DNA-binding domain and a catalytic/dimerization domain. We have swapped the putative dimerization domain of AlwI with a nonfunctional dimerization domain from a nicking enzyme, N.BstNBI. The resulting chimeric enzyme, N.AlwI, no longer forms a dimer. Interestingly, the monomeric N.AlwI still recognizes the same sequence as AlwI but only cleaves the DNA strand containing the sequence 5′-GGATC-3′ (top strand). In contrast, the wild-type AlwI exists as a dimer in solution and cleaves two DNA strands; the top strand is cleaved by an enzyme binding to that sequence, and its complementary bottom strand is cleaved by the second enzyme dimerized with the first enzyme. N.AlwI is unable to form a dimer and therefore nicks DNA as a monomer. In addition, the engineered nicking enzyme is at least as active as the wild-type AlwI and is thus a useful enzyme. To our knowledge, this is the first report of creating a nicking enzyme by domain swapping.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A single oligonucleotide was covalently attached to a genetically engineered subunit of the heptameric protein pore, α-hemolysin, to allow DNA duplex formation inside the pore lumen. Single-channel current recording was used to study the properties of the modified pore. On addition of an oligonucleotide 8 bases in length and with a sequence complementary to the tethered DNA strand, current blockades with durations of hundreds of milliseconds occurred, representing hybridization events of individual oligonucleotides to the tethered DNA strand. Kinetic constants for DNA duplex formation at the single molecule level were derived and found to be consistent with established literature values for macroscopic duplex formation. The resultant equilibrium constant for duplex formation in the nanopore was found to be close to the experimentally derived constant for duplex formation in solution. A good agreement between the equilibrium constants for duplex formation in the nanopore and in solution was also found for two other oligonucleotide pairs. In addition, the nanopore recordings revealed details of the kinetics difficult to obtain by conventional methods, like surface plasmon resonance, which measure ensemble properties. By investigating the temperature dependence of DNA duplex formation at the single molecule level, the standard enthalpy and entropy of the interaction could be obtained.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ultrafast-folding proteins are important for combining experiment and simulation to give complete descriptions of folding pathways. The WW domain family comprises small proteins with a three-stranded antiparallel β-sheet topology. Previous studies on the 57-residue YAP 65 WW domain indicate the presence of residual structure in the chemically denatured state. Here we analyze three minimal core WW domains of 38–44 residues. There was little spectroscopic or thermodynamic evidence for residual structure in either their chemically or thermally denatured states. Folding and unfolding kinetics, studied by using rapid temperature-jump and continuous-flow techniques, show that each domain folds and unfolds very rapidly in a two-state transition through a highly compact transition state. Folding half-times were as short as 17 μs at 25°C, within an order of magnitude of the predicted maximal rate of loop formation. The small size and topological simplicity of these domains, in conjunction with their very rapid two-state folding, may allow us to reduce the difference in time scale between experiment and theoretical simulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chemical synthesis allows the incorporation of nonnatural amino acids into proteins that may provide previously untried probes of their folding pathway and thermodynamic stability. We have used a flexible thioether linker as a loop mimetic in the human yes kinase-associated protein (YAP 65) WW domain, a three-stranded, 44-residue, β-sheet protein. This linkage avoids problems of incorporating sequences that constrain loops to the extent that they significantly change the nature of the denatured state with concomitant effects on the folding kinetics. An NMR solution structure shows that the thioether linker had little effect on the global fold of the domain, although the loop is apparently more dynamic. The thioether variants are destabilized by up to 1.4 kcal/mol (1 cal = 4.18 J). Preliminary Φ-value analysis showed that the first loop is highly structured in the folding transition state, and the second loop is essentially unstructured. These data are consistent with results from simulated unfolding and detailed protein-engineering studies of structurally homologous WW domains. Previously, Φ-value analysis was limited to studying side-chain interactions. The linkers used here extend the protein engineering method directly to secondary-structure interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Experimentally, protein engineering and φ-value analysis is the method of choice to characterize the structure in folding transition state ensemble (TSE) of any protein. Combining experimental φ values and computer simulations has led to a deeper understanding of how proteins fold. In this report, we construct the TSE of chymotrypsin inhibitor 2 from published φ values. Importantly, we verify, by means of multiple independent simulations, that the conformations in the TSE have a probability of ≈0.5 to reach the native state rapidly, so the TSE consists of true transition states. This finding validates the use of transition state theory underlying all φ-value analyses. Also, we present a method to dissect and study the TSE by generating conformations that have a disrupted α-helix (α-disrupted states) or disordered β-strands 3 and 4 (β-disrupted states). Surprisingly, the α-disrupted states have a stronger tendency to fold than the β-disrupted states, despite the higher φ values for the α-helix in the TSE. We give a plausible explanation for this result and discuss its implications on protein folding and design. Our study shows that, by using both experiments and computer simulations, we can gain many insights into protein folding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The amyloidoses are a large group of protein misfolding diseases. Genetic and biochemical evidence support the hypothesis that amyloid formation from wild-type or 1 of 80 sequence variants of transthyretin causes the human amyloid diseases senile systemic amyloidosis or familial amyloid polyneuropathy, respectively. The late onset and variable penetrance of these diseases has led to their designation as multigenic—implying that the expression levels and alleles of multiple gene products influence the course of pathology. Here we show that the binding stoichiometry of three interacting molecules, retinol-binding protein, vitamin A, and l-thyroxine, notably influenced transthyretin amyloidogenicity in vitro. At least 70 genes control retinol-binding protein, vitamin A, and l-thyroxine levels in plasma and have the potential to modulate the course of senile systemic amyloidosis or familial amyloid polyneuropathy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent developments in NMR have extended the size range of proteins amenable to structural and functional characterization to include many larger proteins involved in important cellular processes. By applying a combination of residue-specific isotope labeling and protein deuteration strategies tailored to yield specific information, we were able to determine the solution structure and study structure–activity relationships of 3,4-dihydroxy-2-butanone-4-phosphate synthase, a 47-kDa enzyme from the Escherichia coli riboflavin biosynthesis pathway and an attractive target for novel antibiotics. Our investigations of the enzyme's ligand binding by NMR and site-directed mutagenesis yields a conclusive picture of the location and identity of residues directly involved in substrate binding and catalysis. Our studies illustrate the power of state-of-the-art NMR techniques for the structural characterization and investigation of ligand binding in protein complexes approaching the 50-kDa range in solution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Barrier activity of skin and internal barrier-forming epithelial linings are conferred by a lipid-corneocyte structure (stratum corneum in skin).The integrity of the corneocytes depends on the outer cornified envelope and is essential for maintenance of barrier function. During epidermal development and differentiation, proteins are sequentially incorporated into the envelope via action of epidermal transglutaminases in a well documented process. However, recent knockouts of major cornified envelope constituents have failed to disrupt barrier function significantly, suggesting that additional unidentified components are involved. We report a new gene cluster in the epidermal differentiation complex at human 1q21 encoding a family of 18 proteins that are substrates for epidermal transglutaminases. These proteins incorporate into the cornified envelope late in development and late in the process of envelope maturation during epidermal differentiation. The genes cluster within the epidermal differentiation complex according to expression pattern, i.e., epidermally expressed proteins cluster together while proteins from internal barrier-forming epithelia also cluster. We propose that these proteins modulate barrier activity over the surface of the animal, in a manner analogous to that proposed for the well characterized cornified envelope precursors, the small proline-rich proteins. To emphasize the incorporation of these proteins late in envelope assembly, we call the human proteins late envelope proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuronal processes contain mRNAs and membrane structures, and some forms of synaptic plasticity seem to require protein synthesis in dendrites of hippocampal neurons. To quantitate dendritic protein synthesis, we used multiphoton microscopy of green fluorescent protein synthesized in living isolated dendrites. Transfection of dendrites with mRNA encoding green fluorescent protein resulted in fluorescence that exponentially increased on stimulation with a glutamate receptor agonist; a reaction attenuated by the translation inhibitors anisomycin and emetine. Comparable experiments on whole neurons revealed that (RS)-3,5-dihydroxy-phenylglycine 0.5 H2O (DHPG)-stimulated fluorescence was linear in cell bodies relative to the exponential increase seen in dendrites. Detailed spatial analysis of the subdendritic distribution of fluorescence revealed “hotspots,” sites of dendritic translation that were spatially stable. However, detailed temporal analysis of these hotspots revealed heterogeneous rates of translation. A double-label protocol counterstaining for ribosomes indicated that sites of “fastest” translation correlated with increased ribosome density, consistent with ribosome subunit assembly for initiation, the first step of translation. We propose that dendrites have specific sites specialized for fast translation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have engineered the ecdysone-inducible mammalian expression system for general retroviral delivery to cultured mammalian cells. We inducibly expressed PTEN in the glioblastoma cell line, U87MG, lacking this gene. Because nearly all cells are recruited on induction, we find both up- and down-regulated genes by cDNA microarray analysis. The changes we see are similar to those observed after treatment with LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase, fully consistent with the model that PTEN antagonizes phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase. Both treatments result in suppressed expression of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β gene and the genes of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Our results illustrate the power of using a fully inducible expression system in conjunction with cDNA microarray analysis for exploring gene function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
cAMP, the classical second messenger, regulates many diverse cellular functions. The primary effector of cAMP signals, protein kinase A, differentially phosphorylates hundreds of cellular targets. Little is known, however, about the spatial and temporal nature of cAMP signals and their information content. Thus, it is largely unclear how cAMP, in response to different stimuli, orchestrates such a wide variety of cellular responses. Previously, we presented evidence that cAMP is produced in subcellular compartments near the plasma membrane, and that diffusion of cAMP from these compartments to the bulk cytosol is hindered. Here we report that a uniform extracellular stimulus initiates distinct cAMP signals within different cellular compartments. By using cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels engineered as cAMP biosensors, we found that prostaglandin E1 stimulation of human embryonic kidney cells caused a transient increase in cAMP concentration near the membrane. Interestingly, in the same time frame, the total cellular cAMP rose to a steady level. The decline in cAMP levels near the membrane was prevented by pretreatment with phosphodiesterase inhibitors. These data demonstrate that spatially and temporally distinct cAMP signals can coexist within simple cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Proliferin (PLF) is an angiogenic placental hormone. We now report that PLF gene expression can also occur in a progressive fibrosarcoma mouse tumor cell model. PLF mRNA and protein are detectable at very low levels in cell lines derived from the mild noninvasive stage of tumor development. Expression is greatly augmented in cell lines from the aggressively invasive stage of development, a stage at which the tumor becomes highly angiogenic, and PLF expression remains high in cell lines from the end stage of fibrosarcoma. Activator protein 1 factors present at high levels in the more invasive stages of the tumor may in part allow for increased PLF expression, as cells from the mild stage in which c-jun and junB are stably expressed secrete levels of PLF comparable to that of the advanced stages. Secreted PLF protein is functionally important in tumor cell angiogenic activity, as demonstrated by the reduction of angiogenic activity in fibrosarcoma cell culture medium by immunodepletion of PLF. These results suggest that an extraembryonic genetic program, which has evolved to support fetal growth, may be reactivated in certain tumors and contribute to tumor growth.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein aggregation is widely considered to be a nonspecific coalescence of misfolded proteins, driven by interactions between solvent-exposed hydrophobic surfaces that are normally buried within a protein's interior. Accordingly, abnormal interactions between misfolded proteins with normal cellular constituents has been proposed to underlie the toxicity associated with protein aggregates in many neurodegenerative disorders. Here we have used fluorescence resonance energy transfer and deconvolution microscopy to investigate the degree to which unrelated misfolded proteins expressed in the same cells coaggregate with one another. Our data reveal that in cells, protein aggregation exhibits exquisite specificity even among extremely hydrophobic substrates expressed at very high levels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CDC20/CDH1 activates the anaphase-promoting complex (APC) and targets various substrates for degradation, thereby allowing the ordered progression through mitosis and G1. We have found multiple functional CDH1 homologues in the chick. The transcripts of these novel genes are differentially localized to proliferating, differentiated, and postmitotic tissues. All four proteins bind and form a complex with APC in vitro and in cultural cells and have quantitatively different activities in mediating ubiquitination of various APC substrates. Our results suggest that multiple CDH1s may temporally and spatially regulate APC activity both within and outside of the cell cycle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Local inhomogeneities in lipid composition play a crucial role in regulation of signal transduction and membrane traffic. Nevertheless, most evidence for microdomains in cells remains indirect, and the nature of membrane inhomogeneities has been difficult to characterize. We used lipid analogs and lipid-anchored proteins with varying fluidity preferences to examine the effect of modulating cellular cholesterol on domain formation. We show that lowering cholesterol levels induces formation of visible micrometer-scale domains in the plasma membrane of several mammalian cell types with complementary distributions of fluorescent lipid analogs with preferences for fluid or ordered domains. A uniform distribution is restored by cholesterol repletion. Unexpectedly, cholesterol depletion does not visibly alter the distribution of a crosslinked or uncrosslinked glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein (the folate receptor). We also examined the effect of varying cholesterol content on the cold Triton X-100 solubility of several membrane constituents. Although a cholesterol analog, dehydroergosterol, and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein are largely retained after extraction, a lipid analog with saturated 16-carbon acyl chains is largely removed when the cellular cholesterol level is lowered. This result indicates that after cholesterol depletion molecules in the more ordered domains can be extracted differentially by cold nonionic detergents.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A specific TATA binding protein-associated factor (TAF), dTAFII110/hTAFII135, interacts with cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) through its constitutive activation domain (CAD), which recruits a polymerase complex and activates transcription. The simplest explanation is that the TAF is a coactivator, but several studies have questioned this role of TAFs. Using a reverse two-hybrid analysis in yeast, we previously mapped the interaction between dTAFII110 (amino acid 1–308) and CREB to conserved hydrophobic amino acid residues in the CAD. That mapping was possible only because CREB fails to activate transcription in yeast, where all TAFs are conserved, except for the TAF recognizing CREB. To test whether CREB fails to activate transcription in yeast because it lacks a coactivator, we fused dTAFII110 (amino acid 1–308) to the TATA binding protein domain of the yeast scaffolding TAF, yTAFII130. Transformation of yeast with this hybrid TAF conferred activation by the CAD, indicating that interaction with yTFIID is sufficient to recruit a polymerase complex and activate transcription. The hybrid TAF did not mediate activation by VP16 or vitamin D receptor, each of which interacts with TFIIB, but not with dTAFII110 (amino acid 1–308). Enhancement of transcription activation by dTAFII110 in mammalian cells required interaction with both the CAD and TFIID and was inhibited by mutation of core hydrophobic residues in the CAD. These data demonstrate that dTAFII110/hTAFII135 acts as a coactivator to recruit TFIID and polymerase and that this mechanism of activation is conserved in eukaryotes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Insulin stimulates glucose transport by promoting translocation of the insulin-sensitive glucose transporter isoform 4 (GLUT4) from an intracellular compartment to the cell surface. This movement is accomplished by stimulation of GLUT4 exocytosis as well as inhibition of endocytosis. However, the molecular mechanisms for these effects remain unclear. In this study, we found that the GTP-binding protein Rab5 physically associated with the motor protein dynein in immunoprecipitants from both untransfected cells and cells transfected with GFP-Rab5 constructs. Microinjection of anti-Rab5 or anti-dynein antibody into 3T3-L1 adipocytes increased the basal level of surface GLUT4, did not change the insulin-stimulated surface GLUT4 level, and inhibited GLUT4 internalization after the removal of insulin. Photoaffinity labeling of Rab5 with [γ-32P]GTP-azidoanilide showed that insulin inhibited Rab5-GTP loading. By using microtubule-capture assays, we found that insulin also caused a significant decrease in the binding of dynein to microtubules. Furthermore, pretreatment of cells with the PI3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 inhibited the effects of insulin on both Rab5-GTP loading and dynein binding to microtubules. In conclusion, these data indicate that insulin signaling inhibits Rab5 activity and the interaction of dynein with microtubules in a PI3-kinase-dependent manner, and that these effects may inhibit the rate of GLUT4 internalization. As such, our results present a previously uncharacterized insulin-signaling pathway involving Rab5, the motor protein dynein, and the cytoskeleton to regulate directional GLUT4 movement, facilitating GLUT4 distribution to the cell surface.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Male germ-line stem cells are the only cell type in postnatal mammals that have the capability to self-renew and to contribute genes to the next generation. Genetic modification of these cells would provide an opportunity to study the biology of their complex self-renewal and differentiation processes, as well as enable the generation of transgenic animals in a wide range of species. Although retroviral vectors have been used as an efficient method to introduce genes into a variety of cell types, postnatal male germ-line stem cells have seemed refractory to direct infection by these viruses. In addition, expression of genes transduced into several types of stem cells, such as embryonic or hematopoietic, is often attenuated or silenced. We demonstrate here that in vitro retroviral-mediated gene delivery into spermatogonial stem cells of both adult and immature mice results in stable integration and expression of a transgene in 2–20% of stem cells. After transplantation of the transduced stem cells into the testes of infertile recipient mice, approximately 4.5% of progeny from these males are transgenic, and the transgene is transmitted to and expressed in subsequent generations. Therefore, there is no intrinsic barrier to retroviral transduction in this stem cell, and transgene expression is not extinguished after transmission to progeny.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To examine the molecular processes that lead to light-induced retinal degeneration, mutant mice deficient in arrestin and rhodopsin kinase were raised in the dark and then subjected to relatively low doses of white light. The kinetics of the subsequent induction of apoptosis, change in mRNA transcript level, and photoreceptor cell death were monitored. Analysis of transcript profiles identified clusters of genes that responded differently to illumination, including a cluster of photoreceptor-specific genes that showed marked decreases in levels long before morphological damage could be readily ascertained. The behaviors of other gene clusters demonstrate the coordinate induction of stress gene responses early in the course of irradiation. There was little, if any, change in transcript levels corresponding to genes associated with the initiation of apoptosis or antiapoptotic effects. Transcript analysis provides insight into the patterns of gene expression that are associated with the different stages of retinal degeneration in this model system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
ATR [ataxia–telangiectasia-mutated (ATM)- and Rad3-related] is a protein kinase required for both DNA damage-induced cell cycle checkpoint responses and the DNA replication checkpoint that prevents mitosis before the completion of DNA synthesis. Although ATM and ATR kinases share many substrates, the different phenotypes of ATM- and ATR-deficient mice indicate that these kinases are not functionally redundant. Here we demonstrate that ATR but not ATM phosphorylates the human Rad17 (hRad17) checkpoint protein on Ser635 and Ser645 in vitro. In undamaged synchronized human cells, these two sites were phosphorylated in late G1, S, and G2/M, but not in early–mid G1. Treatment of cells with genotoxic stress induced phosphorylation of hRad17 in cells in early–mid G1. Expression of kinase-inactive ATR resulted in reduced phosphorylation of these residues, but these same serine residues were phosphorylated in ionizing radiation (IR)-treated ATM-deficient human cell lines. IR-induced phosphorylation of hRad17 was also observed in ATM-deficient tissues, but induction of Ser645 was not optimal. Expression of a hRad17 mutant, with both serine residues changed to alanine, abolished IR-induced activation of the G1/S checkpoint in MCF-7 cells. These results suggest ATR and hRad17 are essential components of a DNA damage response pathway in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nerve activity can induce long-lasting, transcription-dependent changes in skeletal muscle fibers and thus affect muscle growth and fiber-type specificity. Calcineurin signaling has been implicated in the transcriptional regulation of slow muscle fiber genes in culture, but the functional role of calcineurin in vivo has not been unambiguously demonstrated. Here, we report that the up-regulation of slow myosin heavy chain (MyHC) and a MyHC-slow promoter induced by slow motor neurons in regenerating rat soleus muscle is prevented by the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporin A (CsA), FK506, and the calcineurin inhibitory protein domain from cain/cabin-1. In contrast, calcineurin inhibitors do not block the increase in fiber size induced by nerve activity in regenerating muscle. The activation of MyHC-slow induced by direct electrostimulation of denervated regenerating muscle with a continuous low frequency impulse pattern is blocked by CsA, showing that calcineurin function in muscle fibers and not in motor neurons is responsible for nerve-dependent specification of slow muscle fibers. Calcineurin is also involved in the maintenance of the slow muscle fiber gene program because in the adult soleus muscle, cain causes a switch from MyHC-slow to fast-type MyHC-2X and MyHC-2B gene expression, and the activity of the MyHC-slow promoter is inhibited by CsA and FK506.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The initiation of DNA replication at replication origins in eukaryotic cells is tightly controlled to ensure that the genome is duplicated only once each cell cycle. We present evidence that in fission yeast, independent regulation of two essential components of the initiation complex, Cdc18 and Cdt1, contributes to the prevention of reinitiation of DNA replication. Cdc18 is negatively controlled by cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) phosphorylation, but low level expression of a mutant form of Cdc18 lacking CDK phosphorylation sites (Cdc18CDK) is not sufficient to induce rereplication. Similar to Cdc18, Cdt1 is expressed periodically in the cell cycle, accumulating in the nucleus in G1 and declining in G2. When Cdt1 is expressed constitutively from an ectopic promoter, it accumulates in the nucleus throughout the cell cycle but does not promote reinitiation. However, constitutive expression of Cdt1, together with Cdc18CDK, is sufficient to induce extra rounds of DNA replication in the absence of mitosis. Significantly greater levels of rereplication can be induced by coexpression of Cdc18CDK and a Cdt1 mutant lacking a conserved C-terminal motif. In contrast, uncontrolled DNA replication does not occur when either mutant protein is expressed in the absence of the other. Constitutive expression of wild-type or mutant Cdt1 also leads to an increase in the levels of Cdc18CDK, possibly as a result of increased protein stability. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that control of rereplication depends on a redundant mechanism in which negative regulation of Cdt1 functions in parallel with the negative regulation of Cdc18.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hoxa9 and Meis1a are homeodomain transcription factors that heterodimerize on DNA and are down-regulated during normal myeloid differentiation. Hoxa9 and Meis1a cooperate to induce acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in mice, and are coexpressed in human AML. Despite their cooperativity in leukemogenesis, we demonstrated previously that retroviral expression of Hoxa9 alone—in the absence of coexpressed retroviral Meis1 or of expression of endogenous Meis genes—blocks neutrophil and macrophage differentiation of primary myeloid progenitors cultured in granulocyte–macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Expression of Meis1 alone did not immortalize any factor-dependent marrow progenitor. Because HoxA9-immortalized progenitors still execute granulocytic differentiation in response to granulocyte CSF (G-CSF) and monocyte differentiation in response to macrophage CSF (M-CSF), we tested the possibility that Meis1a cooperates with Hoxa9 by blocking viable differentiation pathways unaffected by Hoxa9 alone. Here we report that Meis1a suppresses G-CSF-induced granulocytic differentiation of Hoxa9-immortalized progenitors, permitting indefinite self-renewal in G-CSF. Meis1a also reprograms Hoxa9-immortalized progenitors to proliferate, rather than die, in response to stem cell factor (SCF) alone. We propose that Meis1a and Hoxa9 are part of a molecular switch that regulates progenitor abundance by suppressing differentiation and maintaining self-renewal in response to different subsets of cytokines during myelopoiesis. The independent differentiation pathways targeted by Hoxa9 and Meis1a prompt a “cooperative differentiation arrest” hypothesis for a subset of leukemia, in which cooperating transcription factor oncoproteins block complementary subsets of differentiation pathways, establishing a more complete differentiation block in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The placenta is a highly specialized organ essential for embryonic growth and development. Here, we have applied cDNA subtraction between extraembryonic tissues of early- (day 7.5 of gestation) and late-stage embryos (day 17.5) to generate stage-specific cDNA pools that were used for screening of high-density mouse UniGene cDNA arrays containing 25,000 clones. A total of 638 clones were identified, 488 with the e7.5-specific probe and 150 with the e17.5-specific probe. Importantly, 363/638 (56.9%) of the hybridizing clones were not known to be expressed during placental development before. Differential regulation was confirmed by Northern blot and in situ hybridization for a total of 44/44 of positive clones. Thus, this combination of cDNA subtraction and array hybridization was highly successful for identification of genes expressed and regulated during placental development. These included growth factors and receptors, components of the transcriptional and translational machinery, cell cycle regulators, molecular chaperones, and cytoskeletal elements. The extensive in situ hybridization analysis revealed extraembryonic structures with a high density of differentially expressed genes, most strikingly the ectoplacental cone and the spongiotrophoblast. This large-scale identification of genes regulated during placentogenesis is extremely useful to further elucidate the molecular basis of extraembryonic development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Rho family of guanine triphosphate hydrolases controls various cellular processes, including cell migration. We describe here the demonstration of a role for a RhoA GTPase homologue during cell migration in Caenorhabditis elegans. We show that eliminating or reducing rho-1 gene function by using a dominant-negative transgene or dsRNA interference results in a severe defect in migration of hypodermal P cells to a ventral position. Biochemical and genetic data also suggest that unc-73, which encodes a Trio-like guanine nucleotide exchange factor, may act as an activator of rho-1 in the migration process. Mutations in let-502 ROCK, a homologue of a RhoA effector in mammals, also cause defects in P cell migration, suggesting that it may be one of several effectors acting downstream of rho-1 during P cell migration. Finally, we provide evidence to support the idea that other small Rac subfamily small GTPases act redundantly and in parallel to RHO-1 in this specific cell migration event.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cyclin E1 (formerly called cyclin E) and the recently described cyclin E2 belong to the family of E-type cyclins that operate during the G1/S phase progression in mammalian cells. The two E-cyclins share a catalytic partner, cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), and activate their associated kinase activities at similar times during cell cycle progression. Despite these similarities, it is unknown whether the two proteins perform distinct functions, or, alternatively, they control S-phase entry of different cell types in a tissue-specific fashion. To start addressing in vivo functions of E-cyclins, we determined the expression pattern of cyclins E1 and E2 during normal mouse development. We found that the two E-cyclins showed very similar patterns of expression; both were expressed within the proliferating compartment during embryo development. Analyses of cells and tissues lacking members of the retinoblastoma (pRB) family of proteins revealed that the expression of both cyclins is controlled in a pRB-dependent, but p107- and p130-independent fashion, likely through the pRB-dependent E2F transcription factors. We also found that cyclins E1 and E2 are expressed at high levels in mouse breast tumors driven by the Myc oncogene. Last, we found that cyclin E2 is overexpressed in ≈24% of analyzed human mammary carcinomas. Collectively these findings suggest that the expression of cyclins E1 and E2 is governed by similar molecular circuitry.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A new vitamin E constituent having an unusual methylene unsaturation at the isoprenoid-chain terminus of α-tocopherol (α-Toc) was isolated from chum salmon eggs and was found to have identical antioxidant activity as does α-Toc in methanol or liposomal suspension at 37°C. Here we report that this marine-derived tocopherol (MDT) is broadly distributed with α-Toc in the tissue of marine fish, and that the MDT composition of total vitamin E is greater in the flesh of cold-water salmon (12–20%) than in that of tropical fish (≤2.5%). Vitamin E analysis of cultured masu salmon maintained on a MDT-deplete diet showed substantially less MDT content than native masu salmon, suggesting a trophic origin of MDT. This contention is supported by the finding of MDT in marine plankton from the cold waters of Hokkaido. We found that MDT inhibited peroxidation of cholesterol-containing phosphatidylcholine liposomes to a greater extent than did α-Toc at 0°C. Furthermore, the ratios of the rate constants for MDT and α-Toc to scavenge peroxyl radicals increased with decreasing rates of radical flux in liposomes and fish oil at 0°C, indicating that the enhanced activity of MDT at low temperature is attributed to its greater rate of diffusion in viscous lipids. These results suggest that MDT production, or its trophic accumulation, may reduce lipid peroxidation in marine organisms functionally adapted to cold-water environments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Population ecologists have traditionally focused on the patterns and causes of population variation in the temporal domain for which a substantial body of practical analytic techniques have been developed. More recently, numerous studies have documented how populations may fluctuate synchronously over large spatial areas; analyses of such spatially extended time-series have started to provide additional clues regarding the causes of these population fluctuations and explanations for their synchronous occurrence. Here, we report on the development of a phase-based method for identifying coupling between temporally coincident but spatially distributed cyclic time-series, which we apply to the numbers of muskrat and mink recorded at 81 locations across Canada. The analysis reveals remarkable parallel clines in the strength of coupling between proximate populations of both species—declining from west to east—together with a corresponding increase in observed synchrony between these populations the further east they are located.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although sexual selection theory has proved successful in explaining a wide array of male ornaments, the function of ornaments occurring in females is largely unknown. Traditionally, female ornaments have been considered nonfunctional, being merely a genetically correlated response to selection for male ornamentation. However, this hypothesis is only relevant to species in which the ornament is basically the same in the two sexes. Alternatively, female ornaments may be influenced by selection acting directly on the females, either through female–female competition or male choice. We tested the latter hypothesis in mate-choice experiments with two-spotted gobies (Gobiusculus flavescens). In this small marine fish, females have bright yellow-orange bellies during the breeding season, a conspicuous trait that is not present in males. We conducted two aquarium experiments to test whether males preferred to mate with more colorful females. In the first experiment, males had a choice between two females that varied in natural coloration (and belly roundness). In the second experiment, we manipulated belly coloration and kept roundness constant. Males spent more time with colorful than with drab females in both experiments and also performed far more courtship displays toward colorful females. Our study provides experimental evidence that males prefer ornamented females in a fish that is not sex-role reversed, supporting the hypothesis that female ornamentation is sexually selected.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although there is a growing interest in understanding how perceptual mechanisms influence behavioral evolution, few studies have addressed how perception itself is shaped by evolutionary forces. We used a combination of artificial neural network models and behavioral experiments to investigate how evolutionary history influenced the perceptual processes used in mate choice by female túngara frogs. We manipulated the evolutionary history of artificial neural network models and observed an emergent bias toward calls resembling known ancestral states. We then probed female túngara frogs for similar preferences, finding strong biases toward stimuli that resemble a call hypothesized for a recent ancestor. The data strongly suggest that female túngara frogs exhibit vestigial preferences for ancestral calls, and provide a general strategy for exploring the role of historical contingency in perceptual biases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
T2-type RNases are responsible for self-pollen recognition and rejection in three distantly related families of flowering plants—the Solanaceae, Scrophulariaceae, and Rosaceae. We used phylogenetic analyses of 67 T2-type RNases together with information on intron number and position to determine whether the use of RNases for self-incompatibility in these families is homologous or convergent. All methods of phylogenetic reconstruction as well as patterns of variation in intron structure find that all self-incompatibility RNases along with non-S genes from only two taxa form a monophyletic clade. Several lines of evidence suggest that the best interpretation of this pattern is homology of self-incompatibility RNases from the Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, and Rosaceae. Because the most recent common ancestor of these three families is the ancestor of ≈75% of dicot families, our results indicate that RNase-based self-incompatibility was the ancestral state in the majority of dicots.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hypermutagenic PCR has been used to simulate pseudogene evolution of the Escherichia coli R67 dihydrofolate reductase gene. Each time the most divergent clone was used as template for another round of hypermutagenesis. After six rounds, with an average mutation rate of 0.05 per base per round, up to a 46% nucleic acid sequence variation was achieved. For a few clones the protein information content could be annihilated. As the intermediates were cloned and sequenced, it was possible to establish the real lineage and compute the true number of mutations. Not surprisingly the true number of forward and back mutations as well as variable sites exceeded those based on comparing any single intermediate to the initial sequence. However, the true number of forward and backward mutations, as well as the number of variable sites, increased linearly with sequence divergence from the original sequence, suggesting an empirical means to correct for branch lengths.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Do introns delineate elements of protein tertiary structure? This issue is crucial to the debate about the role and origin of introns. We present an analysis of the full set of proteins with known three-dimensional structures that have homologs with intron positions recorded in GenBank. A computer program was generated that maps on a reference sequence the positions of all introns in homologous genes. We have applied this program to a set of 665 nonredundant protein sequences with defined three-dimensional structures in the Protein Data Bank (PDB), which yielded 8,217 introns in 407 proteins. For the subset of proteins corresponding to ancient conserved regions (ACR), we find that there is a correlation of phase-zero introns with the boundary regions of modules and no correlation for the phase-one and phase-two positions. However, for a subset of proteins without prokaryotic counterparts (131 non-ACR proteins), a set of presumably modern proteins (or proteins that have diverged extremely far from any ancestral form), we do not find any correlation of phase-zero intron positions with three-dimensional structure. Furthermore, we find an anticorrelation of phase-one intron positions with module boundaries: they actually have a preference for the interior of modules. This finding is explicable as a preference for phase-one introns to lie in glycines, between G|G sequences, the preference for glycines being anticorrelated with the three-dimensional modules. We interpret this anticorrelation as a sign that a number of phase-one introns, and hence many modern introns, have been inserted into G|G “protosplice” sequences.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sex-ratio distortion is the most common form of non-Mendelian segregation observed in natural populations. It may occur even more frequently than direct observations suggest, because the dysgenic population consequences of a biased sex ratio are expected to result in the rapid evolution of suppressors, resulting in suppressed or “cryptic” segregation distortion. Here we report evidence for cryptic sex-ratio distortion that was discovered by introgressing segments of the genome of Drosophila mauritiana into the genome of Drosophila simulans. The autosomal suppressor of sex-ratio distortion, which is also associated with a reduction in hybrid male fertility, has been genetically localized to a region smaller than 80-kb pairs in chromosome 3.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The “costly signaling” hypothesis proposes that animal signals are kept honest by appropriate signal costs. We show that to the contrary, signal cost is unnecessary for honest signaling even when interests conflict. We illustrate this principle by constructing examples of cost-free signaling equilibria for the two paradigmatic signaling games of Grafen (1990) and Godfray (1991). Our findings may explain why some animal signals use cost to ensure honesty whereas others do not and suggest that empirical tests of the signaling hypothesis should focus not on equilibrium cost but, rather, on the cost of deviation from equilibrium. We use these results to apply costly signaling theory to the low-cost signals that make up human language. Recent game theoretic models have shown that several key features of language could plausibly arise and be maintained by natural selection when individuals have coincident interests. In real societies, however, individuals do not have fully coincident interests. We show that coincident interests are not a prerequisite for linguistic communication, and find that many of the results derived previously can be expected also under more realistic models of society.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Substantial genetic differentiation, as great as among species, exists between populations of Drosophila melanogaster inhabiting opposite slopes of a small canyon. Previous work has shown that prezygotic sexual isolation and numerous differences in stress-related phenotypes have evolved between D. melanogaster populations in “Evolution Canyon,” Israel, in which slopes 100–400 m apart differ dramatically in aridity, solar radiation, and associated vegetation. Because the canyon's width is well within flies' dispersal capabilities, we examined genetic changes associated with local adaptation and incipient speciation in the absence of geographical isolation. Here we report remarkable genetic differentiation of microsatellites and divergence in the regulatory region of hsp70Ba which encodes the major inducible heat shock protein of Drosophila, in the two populations. Additionally, an analysis of microsatellites suggests a limited exchange of migrants and lack of recent population bottlenecks. We hypothesize that adaptation to the contrasting microclimates overwhelms gene flow and is responsible for the genetic and phenotypic divergence between the populations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expanded polyglutamine tracts are responsible for at least eight fatal neurodegenerative diseases. In mouse models, proteins with expanded polyglutamine cause transcriptional dysregulation before onset of symptoms, suggesting that this dysregulation may be an early event in polyglutamine pathogenesis. Transcriptional dysregulation and cellular toxicity may be due to interaction between expanded polyglutamine and the histone acetyltransferase CREB-binding protein. To determine whether polyglutamine-mediated transcriptional dysregulation occurs in yeast, we expressed polyglutamine tracts in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Gene expression profiles were determined for strains expressing either a cytoplasmic or nuclear protein with 23 or 75 glutamines, and these profiles were compared to existing profiles of mutant yeast strains. Transcriptional induction of genes encoding chaperones and heat-shock factors was caused by expression of expanded polyglutamine in either the nucleus or cytoplasm. Transcriptional repression was most prominent in yeast expressing nuclear expanded polyglutamine and was similar to profiles of yeast strains deleted for components of the histone acetyltransferase complex Spt/Ada/Gcn5 acetyltransferase (SAGA). The promoter from one affected gene (PHO84) was repressed by expanded polyglutamine in a reporter gene assay, and this effect was mitigated by the histone deacetylase inhibitor, Trichostatin A. Consistent with an effect on SAGA, nuclear expanded polyglutamine enhanced the toxicity of a deletion in the SAGA component SPT3. Thus, an early component of polyglutamine toxicity, transcriptional dysregulation, is conserved in yeast and is pharmacologically antagonized by a histone deacetylase inhibitor. These results suggest a therapeutic approach for treatment of polyglutamine diseases and provide the potential for yeast-based screens for agents that reverse polyglutamine toxicity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Group II introns, the presumed ancestors of nuclear pre-mRNA introns, are site-specific retroelements. In addition to “homing” to unoccupied sites in intronless alleles, group II introns transpose at low frequency to ectopic sites that resemble the normal homing site. Two general mechanisms have been proposed for group II intron transposition, one involving reverse splicing of the intron RNA directly into an ectopic DNA site, and the other involving reverse splicing into a site in RNA followed by reverse transcription and integration of the resulting cDNA by homologous recombination. Here, by using an “inverted-site” strategy, we show that the yeast mtDNA group II intron aI1 retrotransposes by reverse splicing directly into an ectopic DNA site. This same mechanism could account for other previously described ectopic transposition events in fungi and bacteria and may have contributed to the dispersal of group II introns into different genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The inactivity of Ure2p, caused by either a ure2 mutation or the presence of the [URE3] prion, increases DAL5 transcription and thus enables Saccharomyces cerevisiae to take up ureidosuccinate (USA+). Rtg2p regulates transcription of glutamate-repressible genes by facilitation of the nuclear entry of the Rtg1 and Rtg3 proteins. We find that rtg2Δ cells take up USA even without the presence of [URE3]. Thus, the USA+ phenotype of rtg2Δ strains is not the result generation of the [URE3] prion but is a regulatory effect. Because rtg1Δ or rtg3Δ mutations or the presence of glutamate do not produce the USA+ phenotype, this is a novel function of Rtg2p. The USA+ phenotype of rtg2Δ strains depends on GLN3, is caused by overexpression of DAL5, and is blocked by mks1Δ, but not by overexpression of Ure2p. These characteristics suggest that Rtg2p acts in the upstream part of the nitrogen catabolism regulation pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mineralocorticoid hormone, aldosterone, is known to play a role in sodium homeostasis. We serendipitously found, however, highly significant association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the aldosterone synthase gene and plasma glucose levels in a large population of Chinese and Japanese origin. Two polymorphisms—one in the putative promoter (T-344C) and another resulting in a lysine/arginine substitution at amino acid 173, which are in complete linkage disequilibrium in this population—were associated with fasting plasma glucose levels (P = 0.000017) and those 60 (P = 0.017) and 120 (P = 0.0019) min after an oral glucose challenge. A C/T variant in intron 1, between these polymorphisms, was not associated with glucose levels. Arg-173 and -344C homozygotes were most likely to be diabetic [odds ratio 2.51; 95% confidence interval (C.I.) 1.39–3.92; P = 0.0015] and have impaired fasting glucose levels (odds ratio 3.53; 95% C.I. 2.02–5.5; P = 0.0000036). These results suggest a new role for aldosterone in glucose homeostasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The heterochromatic state of the Drosophila Y chromosome has made the cloning and identification of Y-linked genes a challenging process. Here, we report application of a procedure to identify Y-linked gene fragments from the unmapped residue of the whole genome sequencing effort. Previously identified Y-linked genes appear in sequenced scaffolds as individual exons, apparently because many introns have become heterochromatic, growing to enormous size and becoming virtually unclonable. A TBLASTN search using all known proteins as query sequences, tested against a blastable database of the unmapped fragments, produced a number of matches consistent with this scenario. Reverse transcription–PCR and genetic methods were used to confirm those that are expressed, Y-linked genes. The five genes reported here include three protein phosphatases (Pp1-Y1, Pp1-Y2, and PPr-Y), an occludin-related gene (ORY), and a coiled-coils gene (CCY). This brings the total to nine protein-coding genes identified on the Drosophila Y chromosome. ORY and CCY may correspond, respectively, to the fertility factors ks-1 and ks-2, whereas the three protein phosphatases represent novel genes. There remains a strong functional coherence to male function among the genes on the Drosophila Y chromosome.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Historical sources indicate that the evangelist Luke was born in Syria, died in Greece, and then his body was transferred to Constantinople, and from there to Padua, Italy. To understand whether there is any biological evidence supporting a Syrian origin of the Padua body traditionally attributed to Luke, or a replacement in Greece or Turkey, the mtDNA was extracted from two teeth and its control region was cloned and typed. The sequence determined in multiple clones is an uncommon variant of a set of alleles that are common in the Mediterranean region. We also collected and typed modern samples from Syria and Greece. By comparison with these population samples, and with samples from Anatolia that were already available in the literature, we could reject the hypothesis that the body belonged to a Greek, rather than a Syrian, individual. However, the probability of an origin in the area of modern Turkey was only insignificantly lower than the probability of a Syrian origin. The genetic evidence is therefore compatible with the possibility that the body comes from Syria, but also with its replacement in Constantinople.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The pleiotropic activity of type I interferons has been attributed to the specific interaction of IFN with the cell-surface receptor components ifnar1 and ifnar2. To date, the structure of IFN has been solved, but not that of the receptor or the complex. In this study, the structure of the IFN-α2–ifnar2 complex was generated with a docking procedure, using nuclear Overhauser effect-like distance constraints obtained from double-mutant cycle experiments. The interaction free energy between 13 residues of the ligand and 11 of the receptor was measured by double-mutant cycles. Of the 100 pairwise interactions probed, five pairs of residues were found to interact. These five interactions were incorporated as distance constraints into the flexible docking program prodock by using fixed and movable energy-gradient grids attached to the receptor and ligand, respectively. Multistart minimization and Monte Carlo minimization docking of IFN-α2 onto ifnar2 converged to a well-defined average structure, with the five distance constraints being satisfied. Furthermore, no structural artifacts or intraloop energy strain were observed. The mutual binding sites on IFN-α2 and ifnar2 predicted from the model showed an almost complete superposition with the ones determined from mutagenesis studies. Based on this structure, differences in IFN-α2 versus IFN-β binding are discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite vigorous cell-mediated immune responses to human and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV/SIV) the immune system is unable to clear latently infected resting T cells. These infected cells are reactivated by antigenic stimulation, leading to viral replication. By using the SIV/macaque model of HIV pathogenesis, the dynamics of T cell infiltration into delayed type hypersensitivity sites specific for the purified protein derivative of bacillus Calmette–Guérin have been studied. Early viral mRNA synthesis coincided with the infiltration of antigen-specific T cells. When the infiltration of anti-SIV-specific T cells was rapid compared with the kinetics of viral assembly, the sites were sterilized before the transition to late viral mRNA synthesis occurred. When their infiltration was slow, ephemeral foci of replication were identified. These findings were paralleled by plasma viremia; low viremia coincided with rapid sterilization of the delayed type hypersensitivity sites, whereas high load was found in association with local replication and delayed sterilization. These data suggest that although effective local control of SIV is possible once antiviral T lymphocytes have arrived on site, the slower deployment of these T cells may allow the virus to escape and thus to reseed the pool of memory T cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In schistosomiasis mansoni, parasite eggs precipitate an intrahepatic granulomatous and fibrosing inflammatory process, which is mediated by, and dependent on, MHC class II-restricted CD4 T helper (Th) lymphocytes specific for schistosome egg antigens (SEA). In the mouse model of the disease, CBA mice develop large granulomas, whereas in C57BL/6 (BL/6) mice these granulomas are significantly smaller. To further investigate how the prevailing cytokine environment influences the development of the egg-induced immunopathology, we immunized the low-pathology BL/6 mice with SEA in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) once before, and once again during, the course of a 7-week infection. This immunization caused a pronounced Th1 shift in the SEA-specific CD4 T cell response, which was detected in the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) and spleens, as well as in the granulomatous lesions themselves. The immunized mice displayed a dramatic enhancement of hepatic egg-induced immunopathology manifested by a marked increase in granuloma size and parenchymal inflammation, leading to early death. Control mice immunized with equivalent amounts of SEA or CFA alone displayed the smaller hepatic lesions in a Th2-dominant environment typically seen in the unimmunized BL/6 mice. Analysis of granuloma and MLN lymphocytes from the SEA/CFA-immunized mice revealed that the proportion of CD4 T cells was unchanged in comparison with the control BL/6 groups and remained significantly lower than that seen in the normally high-pathology CBA strain. These results suggest that the shift toward Th1-type cytokine production by a numerically stable population of CD4 T cells correlates with severe exacerbation of immunopathology in schistosomiasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-1β-converting enzyme (ICE; caspase-1) is the intracellular protease that cleaves the precursors of IL-1β and IL-18 into active cytokines. In the present study, the effect of ICE deficiency was evaluated during experimental colitis in mice. In acute dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis, ICE-deficient (ICE KO) mice exhibited a greater than 50% decrease of the clinical scores weight loss, diarrhea, rectal bleeding, and colon length, whereas daily treatment with IL-1 receptor antagonist revealed a modest reduction in colitis severity. To further characterize the function of ICE and its role in intestinal inflammation, chronic colitis was induced over a 30-day time period. During this chronic time course, ICE KO mice exhibited a near complete protection, as reflected by significantly reduced clinical scores and almost absent histological signs of colitis. Consistently, colon shortening occurred only in dextran sulfate sodium-exposed wild-type mice but not in ICE KO mice. Protection was accompanied by reduced spontaneous release of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-18, IL-1β, and IFN-γ from total colon cultures. In addition, flow cytometric analysis of isolated mesenteric lymph node cells revealed evidence of reduced cell activation in ICE KO mice as evaluated by surface expression of CD3 CD69 and CD4 CD25. We conclude that inhibition of ICE represents a novel anti-inflammatory strategy for intestinal inflammation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The functional role and specificity of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) is generally not well characterized. Prominent lymphocyte infiltration is the hallmark of the most common form of hereditary colon cancer, hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) and the corresponding spontaneous colon cancers with the microsatellite instability (MSI) phenotype. These cancers are caused by inherited or acquired defects in the DNA mismatch–repair machinery. The molecular mechanism behind the MSI phenotype provides a clue to understanding the lymphocyte reaction by allowing reliable prediction of potential T cell epitopes created by frameshift mutations in candidate genes carrying nucleotide repeat sequences, such as TGFβRII and BAX. These tumors therefore represent an interesting human system for studying TIL and characterizing tumor-specific T cells. We here describe T cell reactivity against several T helper cell epitopes, representing a common frameshift mutation in TGFβRII, in TIL and peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with MSI+ tumors. The peptide SLVRLSSCVPVALMSAMTTSSSQ was recognized by T cells from two of three patients with spontaneous MSI+ colon cancers and from all three patients with HNPCC. Because such mutations are present in 90% of cancers within this patient group, these newly characterized epitopes provide attractive targets for cancer vaccines, including a prophylactic vaccine for individuals carrying a genetic disposition for developing HNPCC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling-1 (SOCS-1) is an essential physiological inhibitor of IFN-γ signaling. Mice lacking this gene die in the early postnatal period from a disease characterized by hyperresponsiveness to endogenous IFN-γ. The SOCS box is a C-terminal domain shared with over 30 other proteins that links SOCS proteins to an E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and the proteasome, but whether it contributes to inhibition of cytokine signaling is currently disputed. We have deleted only the SOCS box of the SOCS-1 gene in mice and show that such mice have an increased responsiveness to IFN-γ and slowly develop a fatal inflammatory disease. These results demonstrate that deletion of the SOCS box leads to a partial loss of function of SOCS-1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mouse has become an indispensable and versatile model organism for the study of development, genetics, behavior, and disease. The application of comprehensive gene expression profiling technologies to compare normal and diseased tissues or to assess molecular alterations resulting from various experimental interventions has the potential to provide highly detailed qualitative and quantitative descriptions of these processes. Ideally, to interpret experimental data, the magnitude and diversity of gene expression for the system under study should be well characterized, yet little is known about the normal variation of mouse gene expression in vivo. To assess natural differences in murine gene expression, we used a 5406-clone spotted cDNA microarray to quantitate transcript levels in the kidney, liver, and testis from each of 6 normal male C57BL6 mice. We used ANOVA to compare the variance across the six mice to the variance among four replicate experiments performed for each mouse tissue. For the 6 kidney samples, 102 of 3,088 genes (3.3%) exhibited a statistically significant mouse variance at a level of 0.05. In the testis, 62 of 3,252 genes (1.9%) showed statistically significant variance, and in the liver, there were 21 of 2,514 (0.8%) genes with significantly variable expression. Immune-modulated, stress-induced, and hormonally regulated genes were highly represented among the transcripts that were most variable. The expression levels of several genes varied significantly in more than one tissue. These studies help to define the baseline level of variability in mouse gene expression and emphasize the importance of replicate microarray experiments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A distinctive personality type, characterized by introversion, inflexibility, and low novelty seeking, has been suggested to be associated with Parkinson's disease. To test the hypothesis that Parkinson's disease is associated with a specific dopamine-related personality type, the personality structures of 61 unmedicated Parkinson's disease patients and 45 healthy controls were examined. Additionally, in 47 Parkinson's disease patients, the dopaminergic function in the brain was directly measured with 6-[18F]fluoro-l-dopa (18F-dopa) positron emission tomography (PET) with MRI coregistration. The novelty-seeking personality score, supposedly associated with the parkinsonian personality, was slightly lower in the Parkinson's disease group compared with controls, but it did not have a significant relationship with 18F-dopa uptake in any of the brain regions studied (r = −0.12 to 0.11, P > 0.15). The harm-avoidance personality score, associated with anxiety and depression, was clearly increased in patients with Parkinson's disease and it had a paradoxical, highly significant positive correlation with the 18F-dopa uptake in the right caudate nucleus (r = 0.53, P = 0.04, Bonferroni corrected for 220 comparisons). Although the results of this study are not in disagreement with the concept of low-novelty-seeking personality type in Parkinson's disease, the personality type does not seem to be dopamine dependent. The correlation between the personality trait of harm avoidance and 18F-dopa may reflect a specific feedback circuitry of neurotransmitters that is associated with negative emotionality in Parkinson's disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Despite vast efforts and expenditures in the past few decades, malaria continues to kill millions of persons every year, and new approaches for disease control are urgently needed. To complete its life cycle in the mosquito, Plasmodium, the causative agent of malaria, has to traverse the epithelia of the midgut and salivary glands. Although strong circumstantial evidence indicates that parasite interactions with the two organs are specific, hardly any information is available about the interacting molecules. By use of a phage display library, we identified a 12-aa peptide—salivary gland and midgut peptide 1 (SM1)—that binds to the distal lobes of the salivary gland and to the luminal side of the midgut epithelium, but not to the midgut surface facing the hemolymph or to ovaries. The coincidence of the tissues with which parasites and the SM1 peptide interact suggested that the parasite and peptide recognize the same surface ligand. In support of this hypothesis, the SM1 peptide strongly inhibited Plasmodium invasion of salivary gland and midgut epithelia. These experiments suggest a new strategy for the genetic manipulation of mosquito vectorial capacity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ideally, somatic gene therapy should result in lifetime reversal of genetic deficiencies. However, to date, phenotypic correction of monogenic hyperlipidemia in mouse models by in vivo gene therapy has been short-lived and associated with substantial toxicity. We have developed a helper-dependent adenoviral vector (HD-Ad) containing the apolipoprotein (apo) E gene. A single i.v. injection of this vector completely and stably corrected the hypercholesterolemia in apoE-deficient mice, an effect that lasted the natural lifespan of the mice. At 2.5 years, control aorta was covered 100% by atherosclerotic lesion, whereas aorta of treated mice was essentially lesion-free. There was negligible toxicity associated with the treatment. We also developed a method for repeated HD-Ad vector administration that could be applied to organisms, e.g., humans, with life spans longer than 2–3 years. These studies indicate that HD-Ad is a promising system for liver-directed gene therapy of metabolic diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The risks and benefits of structured treatment interruption (STI) in HIV-1-infected subjects are not fully understood. A pilot study was performed to compare STI with continuous highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in chronic HIV-1-infected subjects with HIV-1 plasma RNA levels (VL) <400 copies per ml and CD4+ T cells >400 per μl. CD4+ T cells, VL, HIV-1-specific neutralizing antibodies, and IFN-γ-producing HIV-1-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cells were measured in all subjects. STIs of 1-month duration separated by 1 month of HAART, before a final 3-month STI, resulted in augmented CD8+ T cell responses in all eight STI subjects (P = 0.003), maintained while on HAART up to 22 weeks after STI, and augmented neutralization titers to autologous HIV-1 isolate in one of eight subjects. However, significant decline of CD4+ T cell count from pre-STI level, and VL rebound to pre-HAART baseline, occurred during STI (P = 0.001 and 0.34, respectively). CD4+ T cell counts were regained on return to HAART. Control subjects (n = 4) maintained VL <400 copies per ml and stable CD4+ T cell counts, and showed no enhancement of antiviral CD8+ T cell responses. Despite increases in antiviral immunity, no control of VL was observed. Future studies of STI should proceed with caution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Heart-healthy dietary recommendations include decreasing the intake of saturated fatty acids (SFA). However, the relative benefit of replacing SFA with monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA), polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), or carbohydrates (CARB) is still being debated. We have used two mouse models of atherosclerosis, low density lipoprotein receptor-deficient (LDLRKO) and apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoEKO) mice to measure the effects of four isocaloric diets enriched with either SFA, MUFA, PUFA, or CARB on atherosclerotic lesion area and lipoprotein levels. In LDLRKO mice, compared with the SFA diet, the MUFA and CARB diets significantly increased atherosclerosis in both sexes, but the PUFA diet had no effect. The MUFA and CARB diets also increased very low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (VLDL-C) and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) in males and VLDL-C levels in females. Analysis of data from LDLRKO mice on all diets showed that atherosclerotic lesion area correlated positively with VLDL-C levels (males: r = 0.47, P < 0.005; females: r = 0.52, P < 0.001). In contrast, in apoEKO mice there were no significant dietary effects on atherosclerosis in either sex. Compared with the SFA diet, the CARB diet significantly decreased VLDL-C in males and the MUFA, PUFA, and CARB diets decreased VLDL-C and the CARB diet decreased LDL-C in females. In summary, in LDLRKO mice the replacement of dietary SFA by either MUFA or CARB causes a proportionate increase in both atherosclerotic lesion area and VLDL-C. There were no significant dietary effects on atherosclerotic lesion area in apoEKO mice. These results are surprising and suggest that, depending on the underlying genotype, dietary MUFA and CARB can actually increase atherosclerosis susceptibility, probably by raising VLDL-C levels through a non-LDL receptor, apoE-dependent pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chromosomal rearrangements are found in virtually all types of human cancers. We show that certain chromosome translocations display a delay in mitotic chromosome condensation that is associated with a delay in the mitosis-specific phosphorylation of histone H3. This delay in mitotic condensation is preceded by a delay in both the initiation as well as the completion of chromosome replication. In addition, chromosomes with this phenotype participate in numerous secondary translocations and rearrangements. Chromosomes with this phenotype were detected in five of seven tumor-derived cell lines and in five of thirteen primary tumor samples. These data suggest that certain chromosomal rearrangements found in tumor cells cause a significant delay in replication timing of the entire chromosome that subsequently results in delayed mitotic chromosome condensation and ultimately in chromosomal instability.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Early pathological manifestations of Crohn's disease (CD) include vascular disruption, T cell infiltration of nerve plexi, neuronal degeneration, and induction of T helper 1 cytokine responses. This study demonstrates that disruption of the enteric glial cell network in CD patients represents another early pathological feature that may be modeled after CD8+ T cell-mediated autoimmune targeting of enteric glia in double transgenic mice. Mice expressing a viral neoself antigen in astrocytes and enteric glia were crossed with specific T cell receptor transgenic mice, resulting in apoptotic depletion of enteric glia to levels comparable in CD patients. Intestinal and mesenteric T cell infiltration, vasculitis, T helper 1 cytokine production, and fulminant bowel inflammation were characteristic hallmarks of disease progression. Immune-mediated damage to enteric glia therefore may participate in the initiation and/or the progression of human inflammatory bowel disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many human tumors harbor mutations that result in deregulation of Cdk4 activity. Most of these mutations involve overexpression of D-type cyclins and inactivation of INK4 inhibitors. In addition, a mutation in the Cdk4 protein has been described in patients with familial melanoma (Wolfel, T., Hauer, M., Schneider, J., Serrano, M., Wolfel, C., et al. (1995) Science 269, 1281–1284; Zuo, L., Weger, J., Yang, Q., Goldstein, A. M., Tucker, M. A., et al. (1996) Nat. Genet. 12, 97–99). This mutation, R24C, renders the Cdk4 protein insensitive to inhibition by INK4 proteins including p16INK4a, a major candidate for the melanoma susceptibility locus. Here we show that knock-in mice expressing a Cdk4 R24C allele are highly susceptible to melanoma development after specific carcinogenic treatments. These tumors do not have mutations in the p19ARF/p53 pathway, suggesting a specific involvement of the p16INK4a/Cdk4/Rb pathway in melanoma development. Moreover, by using targeted mice deficient for other INK4 inhibitors, we show that deletion of p18INK4c but not of p15INK4b confers proliferative advantage to melanocytic tumor growth. These results provide an experimental scenario to study the role of Cdk4 regulation in melanoma and to develop novel therapeutic approaches to control melanoma progression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Huntington's disease (HD) is a dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in the protein huntingtin (htt). HD pathogenesis appears to involve the production of mutated N-terminal htt, cytoplasmic and nuclear aggregation of htt, and abnormal activity of htt interactor proteins essential to neuronal survival. Before cell death, neuronal dysfunction may be an important step of HD pathogenesis. To explore polyQ-mediated neuronal toxicity, we expressed the first 57 amino acids of human htt containing normal [19 Gln residues (Glns)] and expanded (88 or 128 Glns) polyQ fused to fluorescent marker proteins in the six touch receptor neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans. Expanded polyQ produced touch insensitivity in young adults. Noticeably, only 28 ± 6% of animals with 128 Glns were touch sensitive in the tail, as mediated by the PLM neurons. Similar perinuclear deposits and faint nuclear accumulation of fusion proteins with 19, 88, and 128 Glns were observed. In contrast, significant deposits and morphological abnormalities in PLM cell axons were observed with expanded polyQ (128 Glns) and partially correlated with touch insensitivity. PLM cell death was not detected in young or old adults. These animals indicate that significant neuronal dysfunction without cell death may be induced by expanded polyQ and may correlate with axonal insults, and not cell body aggregates. These animals also provide a suitable model to perform in vivo suppression of polyQ-mediated neuronal dysfunction.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rickets and hyperparathyroidism caused by a defective vitamin D receptor (VDR) can be prevented in humans and animals by high calcium intake, suggesting that intestinal calcium absorption is critical for 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D [1,25(OH)2D3] action on calcium homeostasis. We assessed the rate of serum 45Ca accumulation within 10 min of oral gavage in two strains of VDR-knockout (KO) mice (Leuven and Tokyo KO) and observed a 3-fold lower area under the curve in both KO strains. Moreover, we evaluated the expression of intestinal candidate genes involved in transcellular calcium transport. The calcium transport protein1 (CaT1) was more abundantly expressed at mRNA level than the epithelial calcium channel (ECaC) in duodenum, but both were considerably reduced (CaT1>90%, ECaC>60%) in the two VDR-KO strains on a normal calcium diet. Calbindin-D9K expression was decreased only in the Tokyo KO, whereas plasma membrane calcium ATPase (PMCA1b) expression was normal in both VDR-KOs. In Leuven wild-type mice, a high calcium diet inhibited (>90%) and 1,25(OH)2D3 injection or low calcium diet induced (6-fold) duodenal CaT1 expression and, to a lesser degree, ECaC and calbindin-D9K expression. In Leuven KO mice, however, high or low calcium intake decreased calbindin-D9K and PMCA1b expression, whereas CaT1 and ECaC expression remained consistently low on any diet. These results suggest that the expression of the novel duodenal epithelial calcium channels (in particular CaT1) is strongly vitamin D-dependent, and that calcium influx, probably interacting with calbindin-D9K, should be considered as a rate-limiting step in the process of vitamin D-dependent active calcium absorption.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Diabetic nephropathy is a major risk factor for end-stage renal disease and cardiovascular diseases and has a marked genetic component. A common variant (D allele) of the angiotensin Iconverting enzyme (ACE) gene, determining higher enzyme levels, has been associated with diabetic nephropathy. To address causality underlying this association, we induced diabetes in mice having one, two, or three copies of the gene, normal blood pressure, and an enzyme level range (65–162% of wild type) comparable to that seen in humans. Twelve weeks later, the three-copy diabetic mice had increased blood pressures and overt proteinuria. Proteinuria was correlated to plasma ACE level in the three-copy diabetic mice. Thus, a modest genetic increase in ACE levels is sufficient to cause nephropathy in diabetic mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expression of capsular polysaccharide (CPS) and some surface proteins by group B Streptococcus (GBS) is regulated by growth rate. We hypothesized that precise control of GBS growth, and thus surface-expressed components, could modulate the ability of GBS to invade eukaryotic cells. To test this hypothesis, a dynamic in vitro attachment and invasion system (DIVAS) was developed that combines the advantages of bacterial growth in continuous culture with tissue culture. Tissue culture flasks were modified with inlet and outlet ports to permit perfusion of GBS. Encapsulated type III GBS strains M781 and COH1 and strains COH1-11 and COH1-13 (transposon mutants of COH1 that express an asialo CPS or are acapsular, respectively) were grown in continuous culture in a chemically defined medium at fast mass doubling time (td = 1.8 h) and slow (td = 11 h) growth rates, conditions previously shown to induce and repress, respectively, type III CPS expression. Encapsulated GBS strains invaded A549 respiratory epithelial cells 20- to 700-fold better at the fast than at the slow growth rate, suggesting a role for CPS. However, unencapsulated GBS were also invasive but only when cultured at the fast growth rate, which indicates that GBS invasion is independent of CPS expression and can be regulated by growth rate. Growth rate-dependent invasion occurred when GBS was grown in continuous culture under glucose-defined, thiamine-defined, and nondefined nutrient limitations. These results suggest a growth rate-dependent regulation of GBS pathogenesis and demonstrate the usefulness of DIVAS as a tool in studies of host–microbe interactions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Viruses of extreme thermophiles are of great interest because they serve as model systems for understanding the biochemistry and molecular biology required for life at high temperatures. In this work, we report the discovery, isolation, and preliminary characterization of viruses and virus-like particles from extreme thermal acidic environments (70–92°C, pH 1.0–4.5) found in Yellowstone National Park. Six unique particle morphologies were found in Sulfolobus enrichment cultures. Three of the particle morphologies are similar to viruses previously isolated from Sulfolobus species from Iceland and/or Japan. Sequence analysis of their viral genomes suggests that they are related to the Icelandic and Japanese isolates. In addition, three virus particle morphologies that had not been previously observed from thermal environments were found. These viruses appear to be completely novel in nature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Archaeological wood in ancient tombs is found usually with extensive degradation, limiting what can be learned about the diet, environment, health, and cultural practices of the tomb builders and occupants. Within Tumulus Midas Mound at Gordion, Turkey, thought to be the tomb of the Phrygian King Midas of the 8th century B.C., we applied a stable nitrogen isotope test to infer the paleodiet of the king and determine the nitrogen sources for the fungal community that decomposed the wooden tomb, cultural objects, and human remains. Here we show through analysis of the coffin, furniture, and wooden tomb structure that the principal degrader, a soft-rot fungus, mobilized the king's highly 15N-enriched nutrients, values indicative of a diet rich in meat, to decay wood throughout the tomb. It is also evident from the δ15N values of the degraded wood that the nitrogen needed for the decay of many of the artifacts in the tomb came from multiple sources, mobilized at potentially different episodes of decay. The redistribution of nutrients by the fungus was restricted by constraints imposed by the cellular structure of the different wood materials that apparently were used intentionally in the construction to minimize decay.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chronic exposure to cocaine causes long-lasting behavioral changes associated with cocaine reinforcement and addiction. An important neural substrate for cocaine addiction is the nucleus accumbens (NAc), which receives dopaminergic input from the ventral tegmental area. Although the neural circuit of the NAc is controlled by several other neurotransmitters, their involvement in cocaine addiction remains elusive. In this investigation, we ablated cholinergic interneurons from the adult NAc with immunotoxin-mediated cell targeting and examined the role of acetylcholine transmitter in adaptive behavioral changes associated with cocaine reinforcement and addiction. Acute exposure to cocaine induced abnormal rotation in unilaterally cholinergic cell-eliminated mice. This abnormal turning was enhanced by repeated exposure of cocaine. In bilaterally cholinergic cell-eliminated mice, chronic cocaine administration induced a prominent and progressive increase in locomotor activity. Moreover, these mice showed robust conditioned place preference with a lower dose of cocaine, compared with wild-type littermates. This investigation demonstrates that acetylcholine in the NAc plays a key role in both acute and chronic actions of cocaine.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) has been conserved remarkably during evolution and is widely expressed in the mammalian brain. In Drosophila, mutation of the PACAP homologue results in behavioral defects, including impaired olfaction-associated learning and changes in ethanol sensitivity. Here, we report the generation of mice lacking the PACAP gene (PACAP−/−). PACAP−/− mice were born in the expected Mendelian ratios but had a high early-mortality rate. The surviving adult PACAP−/− mice displayed remarkable behavioral changes; they exhibited hyperactive and explosive jumping behaviors in an open field, increased exploratory behavior, and less anxiety in the elevated plus maze, emergence, and novel-object tests. Analysis of PACAP−/− mice brains revealed that the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was slightly decreased in the cortex and striatum compared with wild-type mice. The present study provides evidence that PACAP plays a previously uncharacterized role in the regulation of psychomotor behaviors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A basic assumption about the normal nervous system is that its neurons possess identical genomes. Here we present direct evidence for genomic variability, manifested as chromosomal aneuploidy, among developing and mature neurons. Analysis of mouse embryonic cerebral cortical neuroblasts in situ detected lagging chromosomes during mitosis, suggesting the normal generation of aneuploidy in these somatic cells. Spectral karyotype analysis identified ≈33% of neuroblasts as aneuploid. Most cells lacked one chromosome, whereas others showed hyperploidy, monosomy, and/or trisomy. The prevalence of aneuploidy was reduced by culturing cortical explants in medium containing fibroblast growth factor 2. Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization on embryonic cortical cells supported the rate of aneuploidy observed by spectral karyotyping and detected aneuploidy in adult neurons. Our results demonstrate that genomes of developing and adult neurons can be different at the level of whole chromosomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Speech comprehension depends on the integrity of both the spectral content and temporal envelope of the speech signal. Although neural processing underlying spectral analysis has been intensively studied, less is known about the processing of temporal information. Most of speech information conveyed by the temporal envelope is confined to frequencies below 16 Hz, frequencies that roughly match spontaneous and evoked modulation rates of primary auditory cortex neurons. To test the importance of cortical modulation rates for speech processing, we manipulated the frequency of the temporal envelope of speech sentences and tested the effect on both speech comprehension and cortical activity. Magnetoencephalographic signals from the auditory cortices of human subjects were recorded while they were performing a speech comprehension task. The test sentences used in this task were compressed in time. Speech comprehension was degraded when sentence stimuli were presented in more rapid (more compressed) forms. We found that the average comprehension level, at each compression, correlated with (i) the similarity between the frequencies of the temporal envelopes of the stimulus and the subject's cortical activity (“stimulus-cortex frequency-matching”) and (ii) the phase-locking (PL) between the two temporal envelopes (“stimulus-cortex PL”). Of these two correlates, PL was significantly more indicative for single-trial success. Our results suggest that the match between the speech rate and the a priori modulation capacities of the auditory cortex is a prerequisite for comprehension. However, this is not sufficient: stimulus-cortex PL should be achieved during actual sentence presentation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Differential expression of ion channels contributes functional diversity to sensory neuron signaling. We find nerve injury induced by the Chung model of neuropathic pain leads to striking reductions in voltage-gated K+ (Kv) channel subunit expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, suggesting a potential molecular mechanism for hyperexcitability of injured nerves. Moreover, specific classes of DRG neurons express distinct Kv channel subunit combinations. Importantly, Kv1.4 is the sole Kv1 α subunit expressed in smaller diameter neurons, suggesting that homomeric Kv1.4 channels predominate in Aδ and C fibers arising from these cells. These neurons are presumably nociceptors, because they also express the VR-1 capsaicin receptor, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and/or Na+ channel SNS/PN3/Nav1.8. In contrast, larger diameter neurons associated with mechanoreception and proprioception express high levels of Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 without Kv1.4 or other Kv1 α subunits, suggesting that heteromers of these subunits predominate on large, myelinated afferent axons that extend from these cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) are rare autosomal recessive disorders associated with a defect in the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway required for the removal of DNA damage induced by UV light and distorting chemical adducts. Although progressive neurological dysfunction is one of the hallmarks of CS and of some groups of XP patients, the causative mechanisms are largely unknown. Here we show that mice lacking both the XPA (XP-group A) and CSB (CS-group B) genes in contrast to the single mutants display severe growth retardation, ataxia, and motor dysfunction during early postnatal development. Their cerebella are hypoplastic and showed impaired foliation and stunted Purkinje cell dendrites. Reduced neurogenesis and increased apoptotic cell death occur in the cerebellar external granular layer. These findings suggest that XPA and CSB have additive roles in the mouse nervous system and support a crucial role for these genes in normal brain development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Expression of the transcription factor c-Jun is induced in neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) in response to injury. Mechanical transection of the nigrostriatal pathway at the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) results in the delayed retrograde degeneration of the dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and induces protracted expression and phosphorylation of c-Jun. However, the role of c-Jun after axotomy of CNS neurons is unclear. Here, we show that adenovirus-mediated expression of a dominant negative form of c-Jun (Ad.c-JunDN) inhibited axotomy-induced dopamine neuron death and attenuated phosphorylation of c-Jun in nigral neurons. Ad.c-JunDN also delayed the degeneration of dopaminergic nigral axons in the striatum after MFB axotomy. Taken together, these findings suggest that activation of c-Jun mediates the loss of dopamine neurons after axotomy injury.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hippocampal synaptic structure and function exhibit marked variations during the estrus cycle of female rats. Estradiol activates the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway in numerous cell types, and MAP kinase has been shown to play a critical role in the mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity. Here, we report that endogenous estrogen produces a tonic phosphorylation/activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2)/MAP kinase throughout the female rat brain and an increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2 subunits of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Moreover, cyclic changes in estrogen levels during the estrus cycle of female rats are associated with corresponding changes in the levels of activation of ERK2, the state of tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2 subunits of NMDA receptors, and the magnitude of long-term potentiation in hippocampus. Thus, cyclic changes in female sexual hormones result in marked variations in the state of activation of a major cellular signaling pathway critical for learning and memory and in a cellular model of learning and memory.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have identified two chemical series of compounds acting as selective positive allosteric modulators (enhancers) of native and recombinant metabotropic glutamate 1 (mGlu1) receptors. These compounds did not directly activate mGlu1 receptors but markedly potentiated agonist-stimulated responses, increasing potency and maximum efficacy. Binding of these compounds increased the affinity of a radiolabeled glutamate-site agonist at its extracellular N-terminal binding site. Chimeric and mutated receptors were used to localize amino acids in the receptor transmembrane region critical for these enhancing properties. Finally, the compounds potentiated synaptically evoked mGlu1 receptor responses in rat brain slices. The discovery of selective positive allosteric modulators of mGlu1 receptors opens up the possibility to develop a similar class of compounds for other family 3 G protein-coupled receptors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vestimentiferan tubeworms, symbiotic with sulfur-oxidizing chemoautotrophic bacteria, dominate many cold-seep sites in the Gulf of Mexico. The most abundant vestimentiferan species at these sites, Lamellibrachia cf. luymesi, grows quite slowly to lengths exceeding 2 meters and lives in excess of 170–250 years. L. cf. luymesi can grow a posterior extension of its tube and tissue, termed a “root,” down into sulfidic sediments below its point of original attachment. This extension can be longer than the anterior portion of the animal. Here we show, using methods optimized for detection of hydrogen sulfide down to 0.1 μM in seawater, that hydrogen sulfide was never detected around the plumes of large cold-seep vestimentiferans and rarely detectable only around the bases of mature aggregations. Respiration experiments, which exposed the root portions of L. cf. luymesi to sulfide concentrations between 51–561 μM, demonstrate that L. cf. luymesi use their roots as a respiratory surface to acquire sulfide at an average rate of 4.1 μmol⋅g−1⋅h−1. Net dissolved inorganic carbon uptake across the plume of the tubeworms was shown to occur in response to exposure of the posterior (root) portion of the worms to sulfide, demonstrating that sulfide acquisition by roots of the seep vestimentiferan L. cf. luymesi can be sufficient to fuel net autotrophic total dissolved inorganic carbon uptake.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The α and β subunits of Na-K-ATPase are up-regulated by hypertonicity in inner-medullary collecting duct cells adapted to survive in hypertonic conditions. We examined the regulation of the γ subunit by hypertonicity. Although cultured inner-medullary collecting duct cells lacked the γ subunits, both variants γa and γb were expressed in cells adapted to 600 and 900 mosmol/KgH2O. This expression was reversible with a half-time of 17.2 ± 0.5 h. The message of the γ subunit was absent in isotonic conditions and increased with higher tonicity in adapted cells. In acute experiments the appearance of the γ subunit was found to be both time-dependent (≥24 h) and osmolality-dependent (≥500 mosmol/KgH2O). No induction was noted with urea and only minimal induction with mannitol. Increasing concentrations of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 resulted in a dose-dependent decrement in the expression of the γ subunit with total abolition at 10 μM. This was associated with a decrease in cell viability as <20% survived the treatment with 10 μM of LY294002. Neither inhibition of extracellular response kinase nor p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibited osmotic induction of the γ subunit. In contrast, cells transfected with a dominant negative c-Jun N-terminal kinase 2-APF construct displayed complete inhibition of the γ subunit. Such cells have accelerated loss of viability in hypertonic conditions. This study describes the regulation of the γ subunit of Na-K-ATPase by hypertonicity. This regulation is transcriptionally regulated and involves signaling mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase 2 pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The plant-derived steroid, digoxin, a specific inhibitor of Na,K-ATPase, has been used for centuries in the treatment of heart disease. Recent studies demonstrate the presence of a digoxin analog, ouabain, in mammalian tissue, but its biological role has not been elucidated. Here, we show in renal epithelial cells that ouabain, in doses causing only partial Na,K-ATPase inhibition, acts as a biological inducer of regular, low-frequency intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) oscillations that elicit activation of the transcription factor, NF-κB. Partial inhibition of Na,K-ATPase using low extracellular K+ and depolarization of cells did not have these effects. Incubation of cells in Ca2+-free media, inhibition of voltage-gated calcium channels, inositol triphosphate receptor antagonism, and redistribution of actin to a thick layer adjacent to the plasma membrane abolished [Ca2+]i oscillations, indicating that they were caused by a concerted action of inositol triphosphate receptors and capacitative calcium entry via plasma membrane channels. Blockade of ouabain-induced [Ca2+]i oscillations prevented activation of NF-κB. The results demonstrate a new mechanism for steroid signaling via plasma membrane receptors and underline a novel role for the steroid hormone, ouabain, as a physiological inducer of [Ca2+]i oscillations involved in transcriptional regulation in mammalian cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To invade a plant tissue, phytopathogenic fungi produce several cell wall-degrading enzymes; among them, endopolygalacturonase (PG) catalyzes the fragmentation and solubilization of homogalacturonan. Polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins (PGIPs), found in the cell wall of many plants, counteract fungal PGs by forming specific complexes with them. We report the crystal structure at 1.73 Å resolution of PG from the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium moniliforme (FmPG). The structure of FmPG was useful to study the mode of interaction of the enzyme with PGIP-2 from Phaseolus vulgaris. Several amino acids of FmPG were mutated, and their contribution to the formation of the complex with PGIP-2 was investigated by surface plasmon resonance. The residues Lys-269 and Arg-267, located inside the active site cleft, and His-188, at the edge of the active site cleft, are critical for the formation of the complex, which is consistent with the observed competitive inhibition of the enzyme played by PGIP-2. The replacement of His-188 with a proline or the insertion of a tryptophan after position 270, variations that both occur in plant PGs, interferes with the formation of the complex. We suggest that these variations are important structural requirements of plant PGs to prevent PGIP binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many plants synthesize antimicrobial secondary metabolites as part of their normal program of growth and development, often sequestering them in tissues where they may protect against microbial attack. These include glycosylated triterpenoids (saponins), natural products that are exploited by man for a variety of purposes including use as drugs [Hostettmann, K. & Marston, A. (1995) Saponins (Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge, U.K.)]. Very little is known about the genes required for the synthesis of this important family of secondary metabolites in plants. Here we show the novel oxidosqualene cyclase AsbAS1 catalyzes the first committed step in the synthesis of antifungal triterpenoid saponins that accumulate in oat roots. We also demonstrate that two sodium azide-generated saponin-deficient mutants of oat, which define the Sad1 genetic complementation group, are defective in the gene encoding this enzyme and provide molecular genetic evidence indicating a direct link between AsbAS1, triterpenoid saponin biosynthesis, and disease resistance. Orthologs of AsbAS1 are absent from modern cereals and may have been lost during selection, raising the possibility that this gene could be exploited to enhance disease resistance in crop plants.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Crown gall disease, caused by the soil bacterium Agrobacterium tumefaciens, results in significant economic losses in perennial crops worldwide. A. tumefaciens is one of the few organisms with a well characterized horizontal gene transfer system, possessing a suite of oncogenes that, when integrated into the plant genome, orchestrate de novo auxin and cytokinin biosynthesis to generate tumors. Specifically, the iaaM and ipt oncogenes, which show ≈90% DNA sequence identity across studied A. tumefaciens strains, are required for tumor formation. By expressing two self-complementary RNA constructions designed to initiate RNA interference (RNAi) of iaaM and ipt, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana and Lycopersicon esculentum plants that are highly resistant to crown gall disease development. In in vitro root inoculation bioassays with two biovar I strains of A. tumefaciens, transgenic Arabidopsis lines averaged 0.0–1.5% tumorigenesis, whereas wild-type controls averaged 97.5% tumorigenesis. Similarly, several transformed tomato lines that were challenged by stem inoculation with three biovar I strains, one biovar II strain, and one biovar III strain of A. tumefaciens displayed between 0.0% and 24.2% tumorigenesis, whereas controls averaged 100% tumorigenesis. This mechanism of resistance, which is based on mRNA sequence homology rather than the highly specific receptor–ligand binding interactions characteristic of traditional plant resistance genes, should be highly durable. If successful and durable under field conditions, RNAi-mediated oncogene silencing may find broad applicability in the improvement of tree crop and ornamental rootstocks.
DOC DONE!Abstract
During oxygenic photosynthesis in cyanobacteria and chloroplasts of plants and eukaryotic algae, conversion of light energy to biologically useful chemical energy occurs in the specialized thylakoid membranes. Light-induced charge separation at the reaction centers of photosystems I and II, two multisubunit pigment-protein complexes in the thylakoid membranes, energetically drive sequential photosynthetic electron transfer reactions in this membrane system. In general, in the prokaryotic cyanobacterial cells, the thylakoid membrane is distinctly different from the plasma membrane. We have recently developed a two-dimensional separation procedure to purify thylakoid and plasma membranes from the genetically widely studied cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Immunoblotting analysis demonstrated that the purified plasma membrane contained a number of protein components closely associated with the reaction centers of both photosystems. Moreover, these proteins were assembled in the plasma membrane as chlorophyll-containing multiprotein complexes, as evidenced from nondenaturing green gel and low-temperature fluorescence spectroscopy data. Furthermore, electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopic analysis showed that in the partially assembled photosystem I core complex in the plasma membrane, the P700 reaction center was capable of undergoing light-induced charge separation. Based on these data, we propose that the plasma membrane, and not the thylakoid membrane, is the site for a number of the early steps of biogenesis of the photosynthetic reaction center complexes in these cyanobacterial cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The plant oncogene rolD stimulates the reproductive phase transition in plants. We define here the function of its gene product. We show that the RolD protein bears sequence homology with ornithine cyclodeaminase, an uncommon enzyme of specialized-niche eubacteria and archaea that catalyzes the unusual NAD+-dependent conversion of ornithine to proline. To confirm the prediction of the bioinformatic analysis, the RolD protein was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. An ornithine-dependent NAD+ reduction that can be ascribed only to ornithine cyclodeaminase (OCD) activity was detected both in bacterial extracts containing RolD and in assays on the purified RolD protein. Furthermore, OCD activity was observed in soluble extracts from plants overexpressing rolD. The role of rolD in plant pathogenesis and its effect on plant reproductive development are discussed in light of the newly demonstrated enzymatic activity of its gene product.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen intermediates (ROIs) play key roles in the activation of disease resistance mechanisms both in animals and plants. In animals NO cooperates with ROIs to kill tumor cells and for macrophage killing of bacteria. Such cytotoxic events occur because unregulated NO levels drive a diffusion-limited reaction with O2− to generate peroxynitrite (ONOO−), a mediator of cellular injury in many biological systems. Here we show that in soybean cells unregulated NO production at the onset of a pathogen-induced hypersensitive response (HR) is not sufficient to activate hypersensitive cell death. The HR is triggered only by balanced production of NO and ROIs. Moreover, hypersensitive cell death is activated after interaction of NO not with O2− but with H2O2 generated from O2− by superoxide dismutase. Increasing the level of O2− reduces NO-mediated toxicity, and ONOO− is not a mediator of hypersensitive cell death. During the HR, superoxide dismutase accelerates O2− dismutation to H2O2 to minimize the loss of NO by reaction with O2− and to trigger hypersensitive cell death through NO/H2O2 cooperation. However, O2− rather than H2O2 is the primary ROI signal for pathogen induction of glutathione S-transferase, and the rates of production and dismutation of O2− generated during the oxidative burst play a crucial role in the modulation and integration of NO/H2O2 signaling in the HR. Thus although plants and animals use a similar repertoire of signals in disease resistance, ROIs and NO are deployed in strikingly different ways to trigger host cell death.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nanocrystals of magnetite (Fe3O4) in a meteorite from Mars provide the strongest, albeit controversial, evidence for the former presence of extraterrestrial life. The morphological and size resemblance of the crystals from meteorite ALH84001 to crystals formed by certain terrestrial bacteria has been used in support of the biological origin of the extraterrestrial minerals. By using tomographic and holographic methods in a transmission electron microscope, we show that the three-dimensional shapes of such nanocrystals can be defined, that the detailed morphologies of individual crystals from three bacterial strains differ, and that none uniquely match those reported from the Martian meteorite. In contrast to previous accounts, we argue that the existing crystallographic and morphological evidence is inadequate to support the inference of former life on Mars.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The exciton binding energy (Eb) and the band gap energy (Eg) of poly(phenylene vinylene) are determined by high-resolution measurements of the photoconductivity excitation profile as a function of light polarization, applied electric field, and temperature. At high applied electric fields, a peak in the photoconductivity is observed when the sample is pumped at a photon energy just below the onset of the band-to-band π-π* absorption. This peak is interpreted as resulting from field ionization of a weakly bound exciton with Eb ≈ 60 meV. The binding energy is obtained from the energy of the exciton peak relative to the band edge and independently from analysis of the dependence of the exciton dissociation on field and temperature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Most radiocarbon dates for the earliest Neolithic cultures of west Mediterranean Europe are on samples of unidentified charcoal. If only results obtained on short lived samples (seeds, shells, and bone) of diagnostic material (domesticates, artifacts, and human remains) are considered, then the dates for the first appearance of the Neolithic package are indistinguishable statistically from central Italy to Portugal and cluster around 5400 calendar B.C. This rapidity of spread, no more than six generations, can be best explained in the framework of a maritime pioneer colonization model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chromosome stability was maintained in mouse spermatozoa after freeze-drying or freezing without cryoprotection in a simple Tris⋅HCl buffer containing EGTA (50 mM) and NaCl (50 mM). The ability of spermatozoa to activate oocytes spontaneously was not destroyed by freeze-drying or freezing without cryoprotection in this solution. Embryos derived after injecting oocytes with sperm heads from rehydrated freeze-dried and from thawed spermatozoa developed normally. Provided the DNA integrity of the sperm nucleus is maintained, embryos can be generated by the intracytoplasmic sperm injection technique (ICSI) from severely damaged spermatozoa that are no longer capable of normal physiological activity. This procedure was effective for preserving spermatozoa from strains (C57BL/6J, 129/SvJ, and BALB/c) in which the fertility of spermatozoa frozen conventionally is extremely poor. The technique provides an effective means of storing mouse spermatozoa from many different inbred, mutant, and transgenic strains for biomedical research.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian nutritional status affects the homeostatic balance of multiple physiological processes and their associated gene expression. Although DNA array analysis can monitor large numbers of genes, there are no reports of expression profiling of a micronutrient deficiency in an intact animal system. In this report, we have tested the feasibility of using cDNA arrays to compare the global changes in expression of genes of known function that occur in the early stages of rodent zinc deficiency. The gene-modulating effects of this deficiency were demonstrated by real-time quantitative PCR measurements of altered mRNA levels for metallothionein 1, zinc transporter 2, and uroguanylin, all of which have been previously documented as zinc-regulated genes. As a result of the low level of inherent noise within this model system and application of a recently reported statistical tool for statistical analysis of microarrays [Tusher, V.G., Tibshirani, R. & Chu, G. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98, 5116–5121], we demonstrate the ability to reproducibly identify the modest changes in mRNA abundance produced by this single micronutrient deficiency. Among the genes identified by this array profile are intestinal genes that influence signaling pathways, growth, transcription, redox, and energy utilization. Additionally, the influence of dietary zinc supply on the expression of some of these genes was confirmed by real-time quantitative PCR. Overall, these data support the effectiveness of cDNA array expression profiling to investigate the pleiotropic effects of specific nutrients and may provide an approach to establishing markers for assessment of nutritional status.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a methodology of prodrug delivery by using a modified insulin species whose biological activity potentially can be regulated in vivo. Native insulin was derivatized with aldol-terminated chemical modifications that can be selectively removed by the catalytic aldolase antibody 38C2 under physiologic conditions. The derivatized organoinsulin (insulinD) was defective with respect to receptor binding and stimulation of glucose transport. The affinity of insulinD for the insulin receptor was reduced by 90% in binding studies using intact cells. The ability of insulinD to stimulate glucose transport was reduced by 96% in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and by 55% in conscious rats. Incubation of insulinD with the catalytic aldolase antibody 38C2 cleaved all of the aldol-terminated modifications, restoring native insulin. Treatment of insulinD with 38C2 also restored insulinD's receptor binding and glucose transport-stimulating activities in vitro, as well as its ability to lower glucose levels in animals in vivo. We propose that these results are the foundation for an in vivo regulated system of insulin activation using the prohormone insulinD and catalytic antibody 38C2 with potential therapeutic application.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Because invertebrates lack an adaptive immune system, they had to evolve effective intrinsic defense strategies against a variety of microbial pathogens. This ancient form of host defense, the innate immunity, is present in all multicellular organisms including humans. The innate immune system of the Japanese horseshoe crab Tachypleus tridentatus, serving as a model organism, includes a hemolymph coagulation system, which participates both in defense against microbes and in hemostasis. Early work on the evolution of vertebrate fibrinogen suggested a common origin of the arthropod hemolymph coagulation and the vertebrate blood coagulation systems. However, this conjecture could not be verified by comparing the structures of coagulogen, the clotting protein of the horseshoe crab, and of mammalian fibrinogen. Here we report the crystal structure of tachylectin 5A (TL5A), a nonself-recognizing lectin from the hemolymph plasma of T. tridentatus. TL5A shares not only a common fold but also related functional sites with the γ fragment of mammalian fibrinogen. Our observations provide the first structural evidence of a common ancestor for the innate immunity and the blood coagulation systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is the only known eukaryotic virus capable of targeted integration in human cells. An AAV Rep binding element (RBE) and terminal resolution site (trs) identical to the viral terminal repeats required for AAV DNA replication are located on chromosome (ch) 19. Both ch-19 RBE and trs elements have been shown to be essential for viral targeting to this locus. To characterize the role of the AAV inverted terminal repeat (ITR) cis-acting sequences in targeted integration an AAV trs mutant incapable of supporting viral replication was tested. Wild-type and mutant substrates were assayed for targeted integration after cotransfection in the presence or absence of Rep. Our results demonstrated that, in the presence of Rep78, both ITR substrates targeted to ch-19 with similar frequency. Molecular characterization of the mutant ITR integrants confirmed the presence of the trs mutation in the majority of samples tested. Complementation analysis confirmed that the mutant targeted viral genomes were unable to rescue and replicate. In addition, Rep78 induced extensive rearrangement and amplification of ch-19 sequences independent of wild-type or mutant targeting substrate. These studies demonstrate that Rep-dependent nicking of the viral cis-acting trs sequence is not a prerequisite for site-specific recombination and suggests AAV targeting is mediated by Rep78/68-dependent replication from the ch-19 origin of replication (ori). These studies have significant impact toward the understanding of AAV site-specific recombination and the development of targeting vectors.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Reversible tyrosine phosphorylation plays a crucial role in signal transduction, regulating many biological functions including proliferation, differentiation, and motility. The comprehensive characterization of the tyrosine phosphorylation state of a cell is of great interest for understanding the mechanisms that underlie signaling; however, current methods for analyzing tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins in crude protein extracts provide limited information, or are laborious and require relatively large amounts of protein. We have developed a simple, rapid, and flexible competitive binding assay based on the far-Western blot technique, in which a battery of Src homology 2 domain probes is used to detect patterns of specific tyrosine-phosphorylated sites. We demonstrate that distinct profiles of tyrosine phosphorylation can be detected with high sensitivity and specificity and low background. This proteomic approach can be used to rapidly profile the global tyrosine phosphorylation state of any cell of interest and has obvious applications as a molecular diagnostic tool, for example in the classification of tumors. The general strategy we describe here is not limited to Src homology 2 domains and could be used to profile the binding sites for any class of protein interaction domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Arginyl-tRNA synthetase (ArgRS) recognizes two major identity elements of tRNAArg: A20, located at the outside corner of the L-shaped tRNA, and C35, the second letter of the anticodon. Only a few exceptional organisms, such as the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, lack A20 in tRNAArg. In the present study, we solved the crystal structure of a typical A20-recognizing ArgRS from Thermus thermophilus at 2.3 Å resolution. The structure of the T. thermophilus ArgRS was found to be similar to that of the previously reported S. cerevisiae ArgRS, except for short insertions and a concomitant conformational change in the N-terminal domain. The structure of the yeast ArgRS⋅tRNAArg complex suggested that two residues in the unique N-terminal domain, Tyr77 and Asn79, which are phylogenetically invariant in the ArgRSs from all organisms with A20 in tRNAArgs, are involved in A20 recognition. However, in a docking model constructed based on the yeast ArgRS⋅tRNAArg and T. thermophilus ArgRS structures, Tyr77 and Asn79 are not close enough to make direct contact with A20, because of the conformational change in the N-terminal domain. Nevertheless, the replacement of Tyr77 or Asn79 by Ala severely reduced the arginylation efficiency. Therefore, some conformational change around A20 is necessary for the recognition. Surprisingly, the N79D mutant equally recognized A20 and G20, with only a slight reduction in the arginylation efficiency as compared with the wild-type enzyme. Other mutants of Asn79 also exhibited broader specificity for the nucleotide at position 20 of tRNAArg. We propose a model of A20 recognition by the ArgRS that is consistent with the present results of the mutational analyses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The x-ray crystal structure of recombinant trichodiene synthase from Fusarium sporotrichioides has been determined to 2.5-Å resolution, both unliganded and complexed with inorganic pyrophosphate. This reaction product coordinates to three Mg2+ ions near the mouth of the active site cleft. A comparison of the liganded and unliganded structures reveals a ligand-induced conformational change that closes the mouth of the active site cleft. Binding of the substrate farnesyl diphosphate similarly may trigger this conformational change, which would facilitate catalysis by protecting reactive carbocationic intermediates in the cyclization cascade. Trichodiene synthase also shares significant structural similarity with other sesquiterpene synthases despite a lack of significant sequence identity. This similarity indicates divergence from a common ancestor early in the evolution of terpene biosynthesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Electron spin resonance spectroscopy has been used to study free radical generation in rats with acute sodium formate poisoning. The in vivo spin-trapping technique was used with α-(4-pyridyl-1-oxide)-N-t-butylnitrone (POBN), which reacts with free radical metabolites to form radical adducts, which were detected in the bile and urine samples from Fischer rats. The use of [13C]-sodium formate and computer simulations of the spectra identified the 12-line spectrum as arising from the POBN/carbon dioxide anion radical adduct. The identification of POBN/⋅CO radical adduct provides direct electron spin resonance spectroscopy evidence for the formation of ⋅CO radicals during acute intoxication by sodium formate, suggesting a free radical metabolic pathway. To study the mechanism of free radical generation by formate, we tested several known inhibitors. Both allopurinol, an inhibitor of xanthine oxidase, and aminobenzotriazole, a cytochrome P450 inhibitor, decreased free radical formation from formate, which may imply a dependence on hydrogen peroxide. In accord with this hypothesis, the catalase inhibitor 3-aminotriazole caused a significant increase in free radical formation. The iron chelator Desferal decreased the formation of free radicals up to 2-fold. Presumably, iron plays a role in the mechanism of free radical generation by formate via the Fenton reaction. The detection of formate free radical metabolites generated in vivo and the key role of the Fenton reaction in this process may be important for understanding the pathogenesis of both formate and methanol intoxication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The deposition of amyloid β-peptide (Aβ) in the brain is closely associated with the development of Alzheimer's disease. Aβ is generated from the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by sequential action of β-secretase (BACE1) and γ-secretase. Although BACE1 is distributed among various other tissues, its physiological substrates other than APP have yet to be identified. ST6Gal I is a sialyltransferase that produces a sialylα2,6galactose residue, and the enzyme is secreted out of the cell after proteolytic cleavage. We report here that BACE1 is involved in the proteolytic cleavage of ST6Gal I, on the basis of the following observations. ST6Gal I was colocalized with BACE1 in the Golgi apparatus by immunofluorescence microscopy, suggesting that BACE1 acts on ST6Gal I within the same intracellular compartment. When BACE1 was overexpressed with ST6Gal I in COS cells, the secretion of ST6Gal I markedly increased. When APPSW (Swedish familial Alzheimer's disease mutation), a preferable substrate for BACE1, was coexpressed with ST6Gal I in COS cells, the secretion of ST6Gal I significantly decreased, suggesting that that the β-cleavage of overexpressed APPSW competes with ST6Gal I processing. In addition, BACE1-Fc (Fc, the hinge and constant region of IgG) chimera cleaved protein A-ST6Gal I fusion protein in vitro. Thus, we conclude that BACE1 is responsible for the cleavage and secretion of ST6Gal I.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA photolyase is a pyrimidine-dimer repair enzyme that uses visible light. Photolyase generally contains two chromophore cofactors. One is a catalytic cofactor directly contributing to the repair of a pyrimidine-dimer. The other is a light-harvesting cofactor, which absorbs visible light and transfers energy to the catalytic cofactor. Photolyases are classified according to their second cofactor into either a folate- or deazaflavin-type. The native structures of both types of photolyases have already been determined, but the mechanism of substrate recognition remains largely unclear because of the lack of structural information regarding the photolyase-substrate complex. Photolyase from Thermus thermophilus, the first thermostable class I photolyase found, is favorable for function analysis, but even the type of the second cofactor has not been identified. Here, we report the crystal structures of T. thermophilus photolyase in both forms of the native enzyme and the complex along with a part of its substrate, thymine. A structural comparison with other photolyases suggests that T. thermophilus photolyase has structural features allowing for thermostability and that its light-harvesting cofactor binding site bears a close resemblance to a deazaflavin-type photolyase. One thymine base is found at the hole, a putative substrate-binding site near the catalytic cofactor in the complex form. This structural data for the photolyase-thymine complex allow us to propose a detailed model for the pyrimidine-dimer recognition mechanism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
PPT1 and PPT2 encode two lysosomal thioesterases that catalyze the hydrolysis of long chain fatty acyl CoAs. In addition to this function, PPT1 (palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1) hydrolyzes fatty acids from modified cysteine residues in proteins that are undergoing degradation in the lysosome. PPT1 deficiency in humans causes a neurodegenerative disorder, infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (also known as infantile Batten disease). In the current work, we engineered disruptions in the PPT1 and PPT2 genes to create “knockout” mice that were deficient in either enzyme. Both lines of mice were viable and fertile. However, both lines developed spasticity (a “clasping” phenotype) at a median age of 21 wk and 29 wk, respectively. Motor abnormalities progressed in the PPT1 knockout mice, leading to death by 10 mo of age. In contrast, the majority of PPT2 mice were alive at 12 mo. Myoclonic jerking and seizures were prominent in the PPT1 mice. Autofluorescent storage material was striking throughout the brains of both strains of mice. Neuronal loss and apoptosis were particularly prominent in PPT1-deficient brains. These studies provide a mouse model for infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis and further suggest that PPT2 serves a role in the brain that is not carried out by PPT1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The up-regulation of the 25-hydroxyvitamin D3-24-hydroxylase by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] is well established and occurs at the transcriptional level through two vitamin D response elements in the promoter of the gene. However, the mechanism of down-regulation of the 24-hydroxylase by parathyroid hormone (PTH) has not yet been elucidated. To study the mechanism of PTH action, we used AOK-B50 cells, a porcine kidney-cell line with stably transfected opossum PTH receptor in which both the 24-hydroxylase mRNA and activity are down-regulated by PTH. Cells dosed with 1,25(OH)2D3 at 0 h, and subsequently at 0, 1, 2, or 4 h with 100 nM of PTH, showed levels of 24-hydroxylase mRNA equivalent to 72.6, 65.3, 57.2, and 37.1%, respectively, of the levels found in cells dosed with 1,25(OH)2D3 only. All cells were collected 7 h after the initial 1,25(OH)2D3 dose. This pattern of expression indicated that PTH does not act by repressing transcription but rather by making the mRNA for 24-hydroxylase susceptible to degradation. At least 1 h is required for PTH to act. Further RNA and protein syntheses are required for PTH to act. However, the sites and mechanism whereby PTH causes 24-hydroxylase mRNA degradation are unknown. Because the untranslated regions of genes can determine the stability of its transcripts, we studied the 5′ untranslated region and the 3′ untranslated region of the rat 24-hydroxylase gene by using reporter-gene strategy to identify possible PTH sites of action. None was found, suggesting that the destabilization site is elsewhere in the coding region.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Arsenate is an abundant oxyanion that, because of its ability to mimic the phosphate group, is toxic to cells. Arsenate reductase (EC 1.97.1.5; encoded by the arsC gene in bacteria) participates to achieve arsenate resistance in both prokaryotes and yeast by reducing arsenate to arsenite; the arsenite is then exported by a specific transporter. The crystal structure of Bacillus subtilis arsenate reductase in the reduced form with a bound sulfate ion in its active site is solved at 1.6-Å resolution. Significant structural similarity is seen between arsenate reductase and bovine low molecular weight protein tyrosine phosphatase, despite very low sequence identity. The similarity is especially high between their active sites. It is further confirmed that this structural homology is relevant functionally by showing the phosphatase activity of the arsenate reductase in vitro. Thus, we can understand the arsenate reduction in the light of low molecular weight protein tyrosine phosphatase mechanism and also explain the catalytic roles of essential residues such as Cys-10, Cys-82, Cys-89, Arg-16, and Asp-105. A “triple cysteine redox relay” is proposed for the arsenate reduction mechanism.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A trace amount of coagulation factor VII (FVII) circulates in the blood in the activated form, FVIIa (EC 3.4.21.21), formed by internal proteolysis. To avoid disseminated thrombus formation, FVIIa remains in a conformation with zymogen-like properties. Association with tissue factor (TF), locally exposed upon vascular injury, is necessary to render FVIIa biologically active and initiate blood clotting. We have designed potent mutants of FVIIa by replacing residues believed to function as determinants for the inherent zymogenicity. The TF-independent rate of factor X activation was dramatically improved, up to about 100-fold faster than that obtained with the wild-type enzyme and close to that of the FVIIa-soluble TF complex. The mutants appear to retain the substrate specificity of the parent enzyme and can be further stimulated by TF. Insights into the mechanism behind the increased activity of the mutants, presumably also pertinent to the TF-induced, allosteric stimulation of FVIIa activity, were obtained by studying their calcium dependence and the accessibility of the N terminus of the protease domain to chemical modification. The FVIIa analogues promise to offer a more efficacious treatment of bleeding episodes especially in hemophiliacs with inhibitory antibodies precluding conventional replacement therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The interaction between an origin sequence and the origin recognition complex (ORC), which is highly conserved in eukaryotes, is critical for the initiation of DNA replication. In this report, we have examined the interaction between the Schizosaccharomyces pombe (sp) autonomously replicating sequence 1 (ars1) and the spORC. For this purpose, we have purified the spORC containing all six subunits, a six-subunit complex containing the N-terminal-deleted spOrc4 subunit (spORCΔN-Orc4), and the spOrc4 subunit by using the baculovirus expression system. Wild-type spORC showed sequence-specific binding to ars1, and the spOrc4 protein alone showed the same DNA-binding properties as wild-type spORC. In contrast, the spORCΔN-Orc4 and the ΔN-spOrc4p alone did not bind significantly to ars1. These findings indicate that the N-terminal domain of the spOrc4 protein that contains multiple AT-hook motifs is essential for the ars1-binding activity. DNA-binding competition assays with fragments of ars1 and DNase I footprinting studies with full-length ars1 revealed that the spORC interacted with several AT-rich sequence regions of ars1. These DNA-binding properties of spORC correlate with the previously determined sequence requirements of the S. pombe ars1. These studies indicate that because of its unique Orc4 subunit, S. pombe uses a mechanism to recognize its origins different from that used by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A central feature in the biosynthesis of Taxol is oxygenation at multiple positions of the taxane core structure, reactions that are considered to be mediated by cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenases. A PCR-based differential display-cloning approach, using Taxus (yew) cells induced for Taxol production, yielded a family of related cytochrome P450 genes, one of which was assigned as a taxane 10β-hydroxylase by functional expression in yeast. The acquired clones that did not function in yeast were heterologously expressed by using the Spodoptera fugiperda-baculovirus-based system and were screened for catalytic capability by using taxa-4(20),11(12)-dien-5α-ol and its acetate ester as test substrates. This approach allowed identification of one of the cytochrome P450 clones (which bore 63% deduced sequence identity to the aforementioned taxane 10β-hydroxylase) as a taxane 13α-hydroxylase by chromatographic and spectrometric characterization of the corresponding recombinant enzyme product. The demonstration of a second relevant hydroxylase from the induced family of cytochrome P450 genes validates this strategy for elucidating the oxygenation steps of taxane diterpenoid (taxoid) metabolism. Additionally, substrate specificity studies with the available cytochrome P450 hydroxylases now indicate that there is likely more than one biosynthetic route to Taxol in yew species.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using subtractive hybridization techniques, we have isolated a gene termed JAC that is strongly and specifically activated in avian fibroblasts transformed by the v-jun oncogene of avian sarcoma virus 17 (ASV17), but not in cells transformed by other oncogenic agents. Furthermore, JAC is highly expressed in cell lines derived from jun-induced avian fibrosarcomas. Kinetic analysis using a doxycycline-controlled conditional cell transformation system showed that expression of the 0.8-kb JAC mRNA is induced rapidly upon activation of the oncogenic v-jun allele. Nucleotide sequence analysis and transcriptional mapping revealed that the JAC gene contains two exons, with the longest ORF confined to exon 2. The deduced 68-amino acid chicken JAC protein is rich in cysteine residues and displays 37% sequence identity to mammalian high-sulfur keratin-associated proteins. The promoter region of JAC contains a consensus (5′-TGACTCA-3′) and a nonconsensus (5′-TGAGTAA-3′) AP-1 binding site in tandem, which are both specifically bound by the Gag-Jun hybrid protein encoded by ASV17. Mutational analysis revealed that the two AP-1 sites confer strong transcriptional activation by Gag-Jun in a synergistic manner. Ectopic expression of JAC in avian fibroblasts leads to anchorage-independent growth, strongly suggesting that deregulation of JAC is an essential event in jun-induced cell transformation and tumorigenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Site-1 protease (S1P) cleaves membrane-bound sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs), allowing their transcription-stimulating domains to translocate to the nucleus where they activate genes governing lipid synthesis. S1P is a potential target for lipid-lowering drugs, but the effect of S1P blockade in animals is unknown. Here, we disrupt the S1P gene in mice. Homozygous germ-line disruptions of S1P were embryonically lethal. To disrupt the gene inducibly in liver, we generated mice homozygous for a floxed S1P allele and heterozygous for a transgene encoding Cre recombinase under control of the IFN-inducible MX1 promoter. When IFN was produced, 70–90% of S1P alleles in liver were inactivated, and S1P mRNA and protein were reduced. Nuclear SREBPs declined, as did mRNAs for SREBP target genes. Cholesterol and fatty acid biosynthesis in hepatocytes declined by 75%. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor mRNA declined by 50%, as did the clearance of 125I-labeled LDL from plasma, but plasma cholesterol fell, suggesting that LDL production was reduced. These data raise the possibility that S1P inhibitors may be effective lipid-lowering agents, but they suggest that nearly complete inhibition will be required.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are integral to the mechanisms by which cells respond to physiological stimuli, such as growth factors, hormones, and cytokines, and to a wide variety of environmental stresses. The MAPKs, which are stimulated by phosphorylation of a TXY motif in their activation loop, are components of signal transduction cascades in which sequential activation of protein kinases culminates in their activation and their subsequent phosphorylation of various effector proteins that mediate the physiological response. MAPKs are also subject to dephosphorylation and inactivation, both by enzymes that recognize the residues of the TXY motif independently and by dual specificity phosphatases, which dephosphroylate both Tyr and Ser/Thr residues. We report the identification and characterization of a novel dual specificity phosphatase. Contrary to expectation, this broadly expressed enzyme did not inactivate MAPKs in transient cotransfection assays but instead displayed the capacity to function as a selective activator of the MAPK Jnk, hence the name, Jnk Stimulatory Phosphatase-1 (JSP-1). This study illustrates a new aspect of the regulation of MAPK-dependent signal transduction and raises the possibility that JSP-1 may offer a different perspective to the study of various inflammatory and proliferative disorders associated with dysfunctional Jnk signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Benzoyl-CoA reductase (BCR) from the bacterium Thauera aromatica catalyzes the two-electron reduction of benzoyl-CoA (BCoA) to a nonaromatic cyclic diene. In a process analogous to enzymatic nitrogen reduction, BCR couples the electron transfer to the aromatic ring to a stoichiometric hydrolysis of 2 ATP/2e−. Reduced but not oxidized BCR hydrolyzes ATP to ADP. In this work, purified BCR was shown to catalyze an isotope exchange from [14C]ADP to [14C]ATP, which was ≈15% of the ATPase activity in the presence of equimolar amounts of ADP and ATP. In accordance, BCR (αβγδ-composition) autophosphorylated its γ-subunit when incubated with [γ-32P]ATP. Formation of the enzyme-phosphate was independent of the redox state, whereas only dithionite-reduced BCR catalyzed a dephosphorylation associated with the ATPase activity. This finding suggests that the ATPase- and autophosphatase-partial activities of BCR exhibit identical redox dependencies. BCoA or the nonphysiological electron-accepting substrate hydroxylamine stimulated the redox-dependent effects; the rates of both the overall ATPase and the autophosphatase activities of reduced BCR were increased 6-fold. In contrast, BCoA and hydroxylamine had no effect on oxidized and phosphorylated BCR. The reactivity of the phosphoamino acid fits best with a phosphoamidate or acylphosphate linkage. The results obtained suggest a mechanism of ATP hydrolysis-driven electron transfer, which differs from that of nitrogenase by the transient formation of a phosphorylated enzyme.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In single-channel recordings, the rabbit cardiac Ca2+ release channel (RyR2) is converted to a fully open subconductance state with about 50% of full conductance by micromolar concentrations of ryanodine. At +30 mV, corresponding to a luminal to cytoplasmic cation current, the probability of opening (Po) of ryanodine-modified channels was only marginally altered at pCa 10 (pCa = −log10 Ca concentration). However, at −30 mV, the Po was highly sensitive to Ca2+ added to the cis (cytoplasmic) side and, at pCa 10, was reduced to less than 0.27. The EC50 value for channel opening was about pCa 8. No significant Ca2+ inactivation was observed for ryanodine-modified channels at either −30 mV or +30 mV. The opening of unmodified Ca2+ channels is Ca2+ sensitive, with an EC50 value of about pCa 6 (two orders of magnitude less sensitive than ryanodine-modified channels) and IC50 values of pCa 2.2 at −30 mV and 2.5 at +30 mV. Mg2+ decreased the Po of ryanodine-modified channels at low Ca2+ concentrations at both −30 and +30 mV. Caffeine, ATP, and ruthenium red were modulators of the Po of ryanodine-modified channels. In a [3H]ryanodine binding assay, [3H]ryanodine dissociation from the high-affinity binding site was found to be Ca2+ sensitive, with an IC50 of pCa 7.1. High concentrations of unlabeled ryanodine prevented [3H]ryanodine dissociation, but ruthenium red accelerated dissociation. These results suggest that ryanodine sensitizes Ca2+ activation of the Ca2+ release channel and desensitizes Ca2+ inactivation through an allosteric interaction. [3H]Ryanodine dissociates from the high-affinity site when the channel is closed by removal of Ca2+, implying that high-affinity ryanodine and Ca2+ binding sites are linked through either short- or long-range interactions, probably involving conformational changes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Modulation of the activity of the upstream binding factor (UBF) plays a key role in cell cycle-dependent regulation of rRNA synthesis. Activation of rDNA transcription on serum stimulation requires phosphorylation of UBF at serine 484 by G1-specific cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk)/cyclin complexes. After G1 progression UBF is phosphorylated at serine 388 by cdk2/cyclin E and cdk2/cyclin A. Conversion of serine 388 to glycine abolishes UBF activity, whereas substitution by aspartate enhances the transactivating function of UBF. Protein–protein interaction studies reveal that phosphorylation at serine 388 is required for the interaction between RNA polymerase I and UBF. The results suggest that phosphorylation of UBF represents a powerful means of modulating the assembly of the transcription initiation complex in a proliferation- and cell cycle-dependent fashion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In the Burmese python (Python molurus), the rapid up-regulation of gastrointestinal (GI) function and morphology after feeding, and subsequent down-regulation on completing digestion, are expected to be mediated by GI hormones and neuropeptides. Hence, we examined postfeeding changes in plasma and tissue concentrations of 11 GI hormones and neuropeptides in the python. Circulating levels of cholecystokinin (CCK), glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP), glucagon, and neurotensin increase by respective factors of 25-, 6-, 6-, and 3.3-fold within 24 h after feeding. In digesting pythons, the regulatory peptides neurotensin, somatostatin, motilin, and vasoactive intestinal peptide occur largely in the stomach, GIP and glucagon in the pancreas, and CCK and substance P in the small intestine. Tissue concentrations of CCK, GIP, and neurotensin decline with feeding. Tissue distributions and molecular forms (as determined by gel-permeation chromatography) of many python GI peptides are similar or identical to those of their mammalian counterparts. The postfeeding release of GI peptides from tissues, and their concurrent rise in plasma concentrations, suggests that they play a role in regulating python-digestive responses. These large postfeeding responses, and similarities of peptide structure with mammals, make pythons an attractive model for studying GI peptides.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy is widely used to confine the excitation of a complex fluorescent sample very close to the material on which it is supported. By working with high refractive index solid supports, it is possible to confine even further the evanescent field, and by varying the angle of incidence, to obtain quantitative information on the distance of the fluorescent object from the surface. We report the fabrication of hybrid surfaces consisting of nm layers of SiO2 on lithium niobate (LiNbO3, n = 2.3). Supported lipid bilayer membranes can be assembled and patterned on these hybrid surfaces as on conventional glass. By varying the angle of incidence of the excitation light, we are able to obtain fluorescent contrast between 40-nm fluorescent beads tethered to a supported bilayer and fluorescently labeled protein printed on the surface, which differ in vertical position by only tens of nm. Preliminary experiments that test theoretical models for the fluorescence-collection factor near a high refractive index surface are presented, and this factor is incorporated into a semiquantitative model used to predict the contrast of the 40-nm bead/protein system. These results demonstrate that it should be possible to profile the vertical location of fluorophores on the nm distance scale in real time, opening the possibility of many experiments at the interface between supported membranes and living cells. Improvements in materials and optical techniques are outlined.
DOC DONE!Abstract
F1-ATPase is a rotary motor enzyme in which a single ATP molecule drives a 120° rotation of the central γ subunit relative to the surrounding α3β3 ring. Here, we show that the rotation of F1-ATPase spontaneously lapses into long (≈30 s) pauses during steady-state catalysis. The effects of ADP-Mg and mutation on the pauses, as well as kinetic comparison with bulk-phase catalysis, strongly indicate that the paused enzyme corresponds to the inactive state of F1-ATPase previously known as the ADP-Mg inhibited form in which F1-ATPase fails to release ADP-Mg from catalytic sites. The pausing position of the γ subunit deviates from the ATP-waiting position and is most likely the recently found intermediate 90° position.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Myosin VI is a molecular motor involved in intracellular vesicle and organelle transport. To carry out its cellular functions myosin VI moves toward the pointed end of actin, backward in relation to all other characterized myosins. Myosin V, a motor that moves toward the barbed end of actin, is processive, undergoing multiple catalytic cycles and mechanical advances before it releases from actin. Here we show that myosin VI is also processive by using single molecule motility and optical trapping experiments. Remarkably, myosin VI takes much larger steps than expected, based on a simple lever-arm mechanism, for a myosin with only one light chain in the lever-arm domain. Unlike other characterized myosins, myosin VI stepping is highly irregular with a broad distribution of step sizes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Collagen is a key fibrous protein in biological systems, characterized by a complex structural hierarchy as well as the ability to self-assemble into liquid crystalline mesophases. The structural features of collagen influence cellular responses and material properties, with importance for a wide range of biomaterials and tissue architectures. The mechanism by which fibrillar collagen structures form from liquid crystalline mesophases is not well characterized. We report positive printing of collagen and a collagen-like peptide down to 30–50-nm line widths, using the atomic force microscopy technique of dip-pen nanolithography. The method preserved the triple-helical structure and biological activity of collagen and even fostered the formation of characteristic higher levels of structural organization. The “direct-write” capability of biologically relevant molecules, while preserving their structure and functionality, provides tremendous flexibility in future biological device applications and in proteomics arrays, as well as a new strategy to study the important hierarchical assembly processes of biological systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Four-stranded guanine tetraplexes in RNA have been identified to be involved in crucial biological functions, such as dimerization of retroviral RNA, translational repression, and mRNA turnover. However, the structural basis for these biological processes is still largely unknown. Here we report the RNA tetraplex structure (UGGGGU)4 at ultra-high resolution (0.61 Å). The space group is P4212, and cell constants are a = b = 36.16 Å and c = 74.09 Å. The structure was solved by the multiple-wavelength anomalous dispersion method using a set of three-wavelength data of the isomorphous bromo derivative brUGGGGU and refined to 0.61-Å resolution. Each of the four strands in the asymmetric unit forms a parallel tetraplex with symmetry-related molecules. The tetraplex molecules stack on one another in opposite polarity (head-to-head or tail-to-tail) to form a pseudocontinuous column. All of the 5′-end uridines rotate around the backbone of G2, swing out, and form unique octaplexes with the neighboring G tetraplexes, whereas the 3′-end uridines are stacked-in and form uridine tetrads. All of the bases are anti, and the riboses are in the mixed C2′- and C3′-puckering mode. Strontium ions are observed in every other guanine tetrad plane, sitting on the fourfold axis and associated to the eight O6 atoms of neighboring guanine bases in a bipyramidal-antiprism geometry. The hydrogens are clearly observed in the structure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We calculate the forces required to package (or, equivalently, acting to eject) DNA into (from) a bacteriophage capsid, as a function of the loaded (ejected) length, under conditions for which the DNA is either self-repelling or self-attracting. Through computer simulation and analytical theory, we find the loading force to increase more than 10-fold (to tens of piconewtons) during the final third of the loading process; correspondingly, the internal pressure drops 10-fold to a few atmospheres (matching the osmotic pressure in the cell) upon ejection of just a small fraction of the phage genome. We also determine an evolution of the arrangement of packaged DNA from toroidal to spool-like structures.
DOC DONE!Abstract
During mitosis, replicated chromosomes are separated to daughter cells by the microtubule-based mitotic spindle. Chromosomes attach to the mitotic spindle through specialized DNA/protein structures called kinetochores, but the mechanism of attachment is not well understood. We show here that the yeast microtubule-binding protein, Dam1p, associates physically and functionally with kinetochores, suggesting a role in kinetochore attachment to the spindle. An epitope-tagged version of Dam1p colocalizes with the integral kinetochore component Ndc10p/Cbf2p in immunofluorescence analysis of chromosome spreads. In addition, Dam1p is associated preferentially with centromeric DNA as shown by chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments, and this association depends on Ndc10p/Cbf2p. We also demonstrate genetic interactions between DAM1 and CTF19 or SLK19 genes encoding kinetochore proteins. Although the defect caused by the dam1-1 mutation leads to activation of the spindle checkpoint surveillance system and consequent persistence of sister chromatid cohesion, the metaphase arrest spindle abnormally elongates, resulting in virtually complete chromosome missegregation. Execution point experiments indicate that Dam1p has a role in formation of a metaphase spindle and in anaphase spindle elongation. Finally, we have observed that the protein encoded by the dam1-1 allele becomes delocalized at the nonpermissive temperature, correlating with the subsequent onset of the mutant phenotype. Our studies are consistent with a role for Dam1p in attachment of sister chromatids through the kinetochore to the mitotic spindle before chromosome segregation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is a stress-activated protein kinase that can be induced by inflammatory cytokines, bacterial endotoxin, osmotic shock, UV radiation, and hypoxia. We report the identification of an anthrapyrazolone series with significant inhibition of JNK1, -2, and -3 (Ki = 0.19 μM). SP600125 is a reversible ATP-competitive inhibitor with >20-fold selectivity vs. a range of kinases and enzymes tested. In cells, SP600125 dose dependently inhibited the phosphorylation of c-Jun, the expression of inflammatory genes COX-2, IL-2, IFN-γ, TNF-α, and prevented the activation and differentiation of primary human CD4 cell cultures. In animal studies, SP600125 blocked (bacterial) lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of tumor necrosis factor-α and inhibited anti-CD3-induced apoptosis of CD4+ CD8+ thymocytes. Our study supports targeting JNK as an important strategy in inflammatory disease, apoptotic cell death, and cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The parietal cell (PC) plays an important role in normal gastric physiology and in common diseases of the stomach. Although the genes involved in acid secretion are well known, there is limited molecular information about other aspects of PC function. We have generated a comprehensive database of genes expressed preferentially in PCs relative to other gastric mucosal cell lineages. PCs were purified from FVB/N mouse stomachs by lectin panning. cRNA generated from PC-enriched (PC+) and PC-depleted (PC−) populations were used to query oligonucleotide-based microarrays. False-positive signals were filtered by using a new algorithm for noise reduction and selected results independently audited by real-time quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. The annotated database of 240 genes reveals previously unappreciated aspects of cellular function, including factors that may mediate PC regulation of gastric stem cell proliferation. PC+ and PC− expression profiles were also prepared from germ-free mice 2 and 8 weeks after colonization with a clinical isolate of Helicobacter pylori (Hp)—the pathogen that produces acid-peptic disease (gastritis, ulcers) in humans. Whereas PC+ gene expression was remarkably constant, the PC− fractions demonstrated a robust, evolving host response, with increased expression of genes involved in cell motility/migration, extracellular matrix interactions, and IFN responses. The consistency of PC+ gene expression allowed identification of a cohort of 92 genes enriched in PCs under all conditions studied. These genes provide a molecular profile that can be used to define this epithelial lineage under a variety of physiologic, pharmacologic, and pathologic stimuli.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Membrane-type matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MT1-MMP) plays a critical role in extracellular matrix remodeling under both physiological and pathological conditions. However, the mechanisms controlling its activity on the cell surface remain poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that MT1-MMP is regulated by endocytosis. First, we determined that Con A induces proMMP-2 activation in HT1080 cells by shifting endogenous MT1-MMP from intracellular compartments to cell surface. This phenotype was mimicked by the cytoplasmic truncation mutant MT1ΔC with more robust pro-MMP-2 activation and cell surface expression than wild-type MT1-MMP in transfected cells. MT1ΔC was subsequently shown to be resistant to Con A treatment whereas MT1-MMP remains competent, suggesting that Con A regulates MT1-MMP activity through cytoplasmic domain-dependent trafficking. Indeed, MT1-MMP was colocalized with clathrin on the plasma membrane and with endosomal antigen 1 in endosomes. Internalization experiments revealed that MT1-MMP is internalized rapidly in clathrin-coated vesicles whereas MT1ΔC remains on cell surface. Coexpression of a dominant negative mutant of dynamin, K44A, resulted in elevation of MT1-MMP activity by interfering with the endocytic process. Thus, MT1-MMP is regulated by dynamin-dependent endocytosis in clathrin-coated pits through its cytoplasmic domain.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Newts are capable of regenerating several anatomical structures and organs, including their limbs. This remarkable regenerative capacity is thought to depend on cellular dedifferentiation. Terminally differentiated mammalian cells, by contrast, are normally incapable of reversing the differentiation process. Several factors could explain the absence of cellular dedifferentiation in mammals: (i) inadequate expression of genes that initiate dedifferentiation; (ii) insufficient intracellular signaling pathways; (iii) irreversible expression of differentiation factors; and (iv) structural characteristics that make dedifferentiation impossible. To investigate the causes underlying the lack of cellular plasticity in mammalian cells, we examined the effect of an extract derived from newt regenerating limbs on terminally differentiated mouse C2C12 myotubes. Approximately 18% of murine myotubes reentered the cell cycle when treated with regeneration extract, whereas 25% of newt myotubes exhibited cell cycle reentry. The muscle differentiation proteins MyoD, myogenin, and troponin T were reduced to undetectable levels in 15–30% of treated murine myotubes. We observed cellular cleavage in 11% of the treated murine myotubes and approximately 50% of these myotubes continued to cleave to produce proliferating mononucleated cells. These data indicate that mammalian myotubes can dedifferentiate when stimulated with the appropriate factors and suggest that one mechanism preventing dedifferentiation of mammalian cells is inadequate spatial or temporal expression of genes that initiate dedifferentiation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The spatial arrangement of COPII coat protein subunits was analyzed by crosslinking to an artificial membrane surface and by electron microscopy of coat proteins and coated vesicle surfaces. The efficiency of COPII subunit crosslinking to phospholipids declined in order of protein recruitment to the coat: Sar1p > Sec23/24p ≫ Sec13/31p. Deep-etch rotary shadowing and electron microscopy were used to explore the COPII subunit structure with isolated proteins and coated vesicles. Sec23/24 resembles a bow tie, and Sec13/31p contains terminal bilobed globular structures bordering a central rod. The surface structure of COPII vesicles revealed a coat built with polygonal units. The length of the side of the hexagonal/pentagonal units is close to the dimension of the central rod-like segment of Sec13/31. Partially uncoated profiles revealed strands of Sec13/31p stripped from the vesicle surface. We conclude that the coat subunits form layers displaced from the membrane surface in reverse order of addition to the coat.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recently we purified and identified a previously uncharacterized transcription factor from rat liver binding to the carbohydrate responsive element of the L-type pyruvate kinase (L-PK) gene. This factor was named carbohydrate responsive element binding protein (ChREBP). ChREBP, essential for L-PK gene transcription, is activated by high glucose and inhibited by cAMP. Here, we demonstrated that (i) nuclear localization signal and basic helix-loop-helix/leucine-zipper domains of ChREBP were essential for the transcription, and (ii) these domains were the targets of regulation by cAMP and glucose. Among three cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation sites, Ser196 and Thr666 were the target sites. Phosphorylation of the former resulted in inactivation of nuclear import, and that of the latter resulted in loss of the DNA-binding activity and L-PK transcription. On the other hand, glucose activated the nuclear import by dephosphorylation of Ser196 in the cytoplasm and also stimulated the DNA-binding activity by dephosphorylation of Thr666 in the nucleus. These results thus reveal mechanisms for regulation of ChREBP and the L-PK transcription by excess carbohydrate and cAMP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fringe modulates Notch signaling resulting in the establishment of compartmental boundaries in developing organisms. Fringe is a β3N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (β3GlcNAcT) that transfers GlcNAc to O-fucose in epidermal growth factor-like repeats of Notch. Here we use five different Chinese hamster ovary cell glycosylation mutants to identify a key aspect of the mechanism of fringe action. Although the β3GlcNAcT activity of manic or lunatic fringe is shown to be necessary for inhibition of Jagged1-induced Notch signaling in a coculture assay, it is not sufficient. Fringe fails to inhibit Notch signaling if the disaccharide generated by fringe action, GlcNAcβ3Fuc, is not elongated. The trisaccharide, Galβ4GlcNAcβ3Fuc, is the minimal O-fucose glycan to support fringe modulation of Notch signaling. Of six β4galactosyltransferases (β4GalT) in Chinese hamster ovary cells, only β4GalT-1 is required to add Gal to GlcNAcβ3Fuc, identifying β4GalT-1 as a new modulator of Notch signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Enteropathogenic bacteria elicit mucosal innate and adaptive immune responses. We investigated whether gut epithelial cells played a role in triggering an adaptive immune response by recruiting dendritic cells (DCs). Immature DCs are selectively attracted by the CCL20 chemokine. The expression of the CCL20 gene in human intestinal epithelial cell lines was up-regulated by pathogenic bacteria, including Salmonella species, but not by indigenous bacteria of the intestinal flora. The Salmonella machinery for epithelial cell invasion was not required for CCL20 gene activation. Flagellin but not the lipopolysaccharide was found to be the Salmonella factor responsible for stimulation of epithelial CCL20 production. CCL20 in turn triggered a specific migration of immature DCs. Our data show that crosstalk between bacterial flagellin and epithelial cells is essential for the recruitment of DCs, a mechanism that could be instrumental to initiate adaptive immune responses in the gut.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Steroid-induced maturation of Xenopus oocytes has long served as a model for studying meiosis. Progesterone has been considered the relevant steroid controlling maturation, perhaps through interactions with classical progesterone receptors. In this study, we provide evidence that androgens, rather than progesterone, are the physiologic mediators of Xenopus oocyte maturation. Androgens were equal or more potent activators of maturation in vitro relative to progesterone and were significantly more abundant in the serum and ovaries of β-human chorionic growth hormone-stimulated frogs. Androgen action appeared to be mediated by classical androgen receptors (ARs) expressed in oocytes, as androgen-induced maturation and signaling was specifically attenuated by AR antagonists. Interestingly, we found that progesterone was rapidly converted to the androgen androstenedione in isolated oocytes by the enzyme CYP17, suggesting that androgens may be promoting maturation even under conditions typical for “progesterone-mediated” maturation assays. Androgens are thought to play an important role in ovarian development as well as pathology, and signaling through the AR may prove to be a major regulatory mechanism mediating these processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mouse embryos undergo genome-wide methylation reprogramming by demethylation in early preimplantation development, followed by remethylation thereafter. Here we show that genome-wide reprogramming is conserved in several mammalian species and ask whether it also occurs in embryos cloned with the use of highly methylated somatic donor nuclei. Normal bovine, rat, and pig zygotes showed a demethylated paternal genome, suggesting active demethylation. In bovine embryos methylation was further reduced during cleavage up to the eight-cell stage, and this reduction in methylation was followed by de novo methylation by the 16-cell stage. In cloned one-cell embryos there was a reduction in methylation consistent with active demethylation, but no further demethylation occurred subsequently. Instead, de novo methylation and nuclear reorganization of methylation patterns resembling those of differentiated cells occurred precociously in many cloned embryos. Cloned, but not normal, morulae had highly methylated nuclei in all blastomeres that resembled those of the fibroblast donor cells. Our study shows that epigenetic reprogramming occurs aberrantly in most cloned embryos; incomplete reprogramming may contribute to the low efficiency of cloning.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Evidence suggests that the specification of primordial germ cells (PGCs) in the mammalian embryo does not depend on maternal determinants. Rather, previous genetic analysis in the mouse has shown that bone morphogenetic protein 4 (Bmp4) is required for the formation of both PGCs and allantois. Bmp4 is expressed in both the trophoblast-derived extraembryonic ectoderm (ExE) and in the epiblast-derived extraembryonic mesoderm (ExM), in which the PGCs, allantois primordium, and angioblasts are first detected. We have shown that Bmp4 made in the ExE functions to induce precursors of PGCs and allantois in the adjacent epiblast, resulting in complete lack of both cell types in homozygous null mutants. However, the function of Bmp4 in the ExM is totally unknown. To address this question, we generated tetraploid (4N) chimeras by aggregating Bmp4 null ES cells with wild-type tetraploid embryos. In this combination, wild-type tetraploid cells contribute to the extraembryonic trophoblast and primitive endoderm lineages but are excluded from the epiblast and its derivatives, including the ExM. Our results clearly demonstrate that Bmp4 made in the ExM does not affect the establishment of either PGC or allantois lineages, but is required for PGC localization and survival and for the differentiation of the allantois. These findings suggest that Bmp4 expressed in epiblast-derived tissues plays vital roles in reproduction by regulating both the development of the germ line and the vascular connection between the embryo and the placenta.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The flower of Hypericum calycinum, which appears uniformly yellow to humans, bears a UV pattern, presumably visible to insects. Two categories of pigments, flavonoids and dearomatized isoprenylated phloroglucinols (DIPs), are responsible for the UV demarcations of this flower. Flavonoids had been shown previously to function as floral UV pigments, but DIPs had not been demonstrated to serve in that capacity. We found the DIPs to be present in high concentration in the anthers and ovarian wall of the flower, suggesting that the compounds also serve in defense. Indeed, feeding tests done with one of the DIPs (hypercalin A) showed the compound to be deterrent and toxic to a caterpillar (Utetheisa ornatrix). The possibility that floral UV pigments fulfill both a visual and a defensive function had not previously been contemplated. DIPs may also serve for protection of female reproductive structures in other plants, for example in hops (Humulus lupulus). The DIPs of hops are put to human use as bitter flavoring agents and preservatives in beer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Blind subterranean mole rats retain a degenerated, subcutaneous, visually blind but functionally circadian eye involved in photoperiodic perception. Here we describe the cloning, sequence, and expression of the circadian Clock and MOP3 cDNAs of the Spalax ehrenbergi superspecies in Israel. Both genes are relatively conserved, although characterized by a significant number of amino acid substitutions. The glutamine-rich area of Clock, which is assumed to function in circadian rhythmicity, is expanded in Spalax compared with that of humans and mice, and is different in amino acid composition from that of rats. We also show that MOP3 is a bona fide partner of Spalax Clock and that the Spalax Clock/MOP3 dimer is less potent than its human counterpart in driving transcription. We suggest that this reduction in transcriptional activity may be attributed to the Spalax Clock glutamine-rich domain, which is unique in its amino acid composition compared with other studied mammalian species. Understanding Clock/MOP3 function could highlight circadian mechanisms in blind mammals and their unique pattern as a result of adapting to life underground.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recombination is a key evolutionary process that shapes the architecture of genomes and the genetic structure of populations. Although many statistical methods are available for the detection of recombination from DNA sequences, their absolute and relative performance is still unknown. Here we evaluated the performance of 14 different recombination detection algorithms. We used the coalescent with recombination to simulate DNA sequences with different levels of recombination, genetic diversity, and rate variation among sites. Recombination detection methods were applied to these data sets, and whether they detected or not recombination was recorded. Different recombination methods showed distinct performance depending on the amount of recombination, genetic diversity, and rate variation among sites. The model of nucleotide substitution under which the data were generated did not seem to have a significant effect. Most methods increase power with more sequence divergence. In general, recombination detection methods seem to capture the presence of recombination, but they are not very powerful. Methods that use substitution patterns or incompatibility among sites were more powerful than methods based on phylogenetic incongruence. Most methods do not seem to infer more false positives than expected by chance. Especially depending on the amount of diversity in the data, different methods could be used to attain maximum power while minimizing false positives. Results shown here will provide some guidance in the selection of the most appropriate method/s for the analysis of the particular data at hand.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Degeneracy, the ability of elements that are structurally different to perform the same function or yield the same output, is a well known characteristic of the genetic code and immune systems. Here, we point out that degeneracy is a ubiquitous biological property and argue that it is a feature of complexity at genetic, cellular, system, and population levels. Furthermore, it is both necessary for, and an inevitable outcome of, natural selection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Kin selection promotes the evolution of social behavior that increases the survival and reproductive success of close relatives. Among primates, maternal kinship frequently coincides with a higher frequency of grooming and agonistic aiding, but the extent to which paternal kinship influences adult female social relationships has not yet been investigated. Here, we examine the effect of both maternal and paternal kinship, as well as age proximity, on affiliative interactions among semifree-ranging adult female rhesus macaques, Macaca mulatta. Kinship was assessed by using both microsatellites and DNA-fingerprinting. Our study confirms that the closest affiliative relationships characterize maternal half-sisters. We provide evidence that adult females are significantly more affiliative with paternal half-sisters than with nonkin. Furthermore, paternal kin discrimination was more pronounced among peers than among nonpeers, indicating that age proximity has an additional regulatory effect on affiliative interactions. We propose that kin discrimination among cercopithecine primates emerges from ontogenetic processes that involve phenotype matching based on shared behavioral traits, such as inherited personality profiles, rather than physiological or physical characteristics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By using a bit-string model of evolution, we find a successful route to diploidy and sex in simple organisms. Allowing the sexually reproducing diploid individuals to also perform mitosis, as they do in a haploid-diploid cycle, leads to the complete takeover of the population by sexual diploids. This mechanism is so robust that even the accidental conversion and pairing of only two diploids give rise to a sexual population.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A new group of long terminal repeats (LTR) retrotransposons, termed terminal-repeat retrotransposons in miniature (TRIM), are described that are present in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plant. TRIM elements have terminal direct repeat sequences between ≈100 and 250 bp in length that encompass an internal domain of ≈100–300 bp. The internal domain contains primer binding site and polypurine tract motifs but lacks the coding domains required for mobility. Thus TRIM elements are not capable of autonomous transposition and probably require the help of mobility-related proteins encoded by other retrotransposons. The structural organization of TRIM elements suggests an evolutionary relationship to either LTR retrotransposons or retroviruses. The past mobility of TRIM elements is indicated by the presence of flanking 5-bp direct repeats found typically at LTR retrotransposon insertion sites, the high degree of sequence conservation between elements from different genomic locations, and the identification of related to empty sites (RESites). TRIM elements seem to be involved actively in the restructuring of plant genomes, affecting the promoter, coding region and intron-exon structure of genes. In solanaceous species and maize, TRIM elements provided target sites for further retrotransposon insertions. In Arabidopsis, evidence is provided that the TRIM element also can be involved in the transduction of host genes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The global gene expression profiles for 67 human lung tumors representing 56 patients were examined by using 24,000-element cDNA microarrays. Subdivision of the tumors based on gene expression patterns faithfully recapitulated morphological classification of the tumors into squamous, large cell, small cell, and adenocarcinoma. The gene expression patterns made possible the subclassification of adenocarcinoma into subgroups that correlated with the degree of tumor differentiation as well as patient survival. Gene expression analysis thus promises to extend and refine standard pathologic analysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have generated a molecular taxonomy of lung carcinoma, the leading cause of cancer death in the United States and worldwide. Using oligonucleotide microarrays, we analyzed mRNA expression levels corresponding to 12,600 transcript sequences in 186 lung tumor samples, including 139 adenocarcinomas resected from the lung. Hierarchical and probabilistic clustering of expression data defined distinct subclasses of lung adenocarcinoma. Among these were tumors with high relative expression of neuroendocrine genes and of type II pneumocyte genes, respectively. Retrospective analysis revealed a less favorable outcome for the adenocarcinomas with neuroendocrine gene expression. The diagnostic potential of expression profiling is emphasized by its ability to discriminate primary lung adenocarcinomas from metastases of extra-pulmonary origin. These results suggest that integration of expression profile data with clinical parameters could aid in diagnosis of lung cancer patients.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The FKBP-12-rapamycin associated protein (FRAP, also known as mTOR and RAFT-1) is a member of the phosphoinositide kinase related kinase family. FRAP has serine/threonine kinase activity and mediates the cellular response to mitogens through signaling to p70s6 kinase (p70s6k) and 4E-BP1, resulting in an increase in translation of subsets of cellular mRNAs. Translational up-regulation is blocked by inactivation of FRAP signaling by rapamycin, resulting in G1 cell cycle arrest. Rapamycin is used as an immunosuppressant for kidney transplants and is currently under investigation as an antiproliferative agent in tumors because of its ability to block FRAP activity. Although the role of FRAP has been extensively studied in vitro, characterization of mammalian FRAP function in vivo has been limited to the immune system and tumor models. Here we report the identification of a loss-of-function mutation in the mouse FRAP gene, which illustrates a requirement for FRAP activity in embryonic development. Our studies also determined that rapamycin treatment of the early embryo results in a phenotype indistinguishable from the FRAP mutant, demonstrating that rapamycin has teratogenic activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
MutS and MutL homologs have been implicated in multiple genetic stabilization pathways. The activities participate in the correction of DNA biosynthetic errors, are involved in cellular responses to certain types of DNA damage, and serve to ensure the fidelity of genetic recombination. We show here that the rate of CAD (carbamyl-P synthetase/aspartate transcarbamylase/dihydroorotase) gene amplification is elevated 50- to 100-fold in human cell lines deficient in MLH1 or MSH6, as compared with mismatch repair-proficient control cells. Fluorescence in situ hybridization indicates that these amplification events are the probable consequence of unequal sister chromatid exchanges involving chromosome 2, as well as translocation events involving other chromosomes. These results implicate MutSα and MutLα in the suppression of gene amplification and suggest that defects in this genetic stabilization function may contribute to the cancer predisposition associated with mismatch repair deficiency.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The papillary renal cell carcinoma (RCC)-associated (X;1)(p11;q21) translocation fuses the genes PRCC and TFE3 and leads to cancer by an unknown molecular mechanism. We here demonstrate that the mitotic checkpoint protein MAD2B interacts with PRCC. The PRCCTFE3 fusion protein retains the MAD2B interaction domain, but this interaction is impaired. In addition, we show that two t(X;1)-positive RCC tumor cell lines are defective in their mitotic checkpoint. Transfection of PRCCTFE3, but not the reciprocal product TFE3PRCC, disrupts the mitotic checkpoint in human embryonic kidney cells. Our results suggest a dominant-negative effect of the PRCCTFE3 fusion gene leading to a mitotic checkpoint defect as an early event in papillary RCCs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The biogenesis of membrane oligomeric complexes is an intricate process that requires the insertion and assembly of transmembrane (TM) domains into the lipid bilayer. The Oxa1p family plays a key role in this process in organelles and bacteria. Hell et al. (2001, EMBO J., 20, 1281–1288) recently have proposed that Oxa1p could act as part of a general membrane insertion machinery for mitochondrial respiratory complex subunits. We have previously shown that mutations in the TM domain of Cyt1p can partially compensate for the absence of Oxa1p. Here, we demonstrate that a single amino acid substitution in the TM domain of Qcr9p can bypass Oxa1p in yeast. Qcr9p and Cyt1p are two subunits of the respiratory complex bc1 and their relative roles in the assembly of other respiratory complexes have been investigated. The mutations we have isolated in Cyt1p or Qcr9p introduce positively charged amino acids, and we show that the mutant TM domain of Cyt1p mediates the restoration of complex assembly. We propose that the positive charges introduced in Cyt1p and Qcr9p TM domains promote interactions with negatively charged TM domains of other respiratory complex subunits, allowing the coinsertion of both domains into the membrane, in the absence of Oxa1p. This model argues in favor of a role of Oxa1p in the insertion and the lateral exit of less hydrophobic TM domains from the translocation site into the lipid bilayer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Colitic lesions are much more severe in C3H/HeJBir (C3H) than C57BL/6J (B6) mice after 10 backcrosses of a disrupted interleukin-10 (Il10) gene. This study identified cytokine deficiency-induced colitis susceptibility (Cdcs) modifiers by using quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. A segregating F2 population (n = 408) of IL-10-deficient mice was genotyped and necropsied at 6 weeks of age. A major C3H-derived colitogenic QTL (Cdcs1) on chromosome (Chr.) 3 contributed to lesions in both cecum [logarithm of odds ratio (LOD) = 14.6)] and colon (LOD = 26.5) as well as colitis-related phenotypes such as spleen/body weight ratio, mesenteric lymph node/body weight ratio, and secretory IgA levels. Evidence for other C3H QTL on Chr. 1 (Cdcs2) and Chr. 2 (Cdcs3) was obtained. Cdcs1 interacted epistatically or contributed additively with loci on other chromosomes. The resistant B6 background also contributed colitogenic QTL: Cdcs4 (Chr. 8), Cdcs5 (Chr. 17, MHC), and Cdcs6 (Chr. 18). Epistatic interactions between B6 QTL on Chr. 8 and 18 contributing to cecum hyperplasia were particularly striking. In conclusion, a colitogenic susceptibility QTL on Chr. 3 has been shown to exacerbate colitis in combination with modifiers contributed from both parental genomes. The complex nature of interactions among loci in this mouse model system, coupled with separate deleterious contributions from both parental strains, illustrates why detection of human inflammatory bowel disease linkages has proven to be so difficult. A human ortholog of the Chr. 3 QTL, if one exists, would map to Chr. 4q or 1p.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Apoptotic cells contain nuclear autoantigens that may initiate a systemic autoimmune response. To explore the mechanism of antibody binding to apoptotic cells, 3H9, a murine autoantibody with dual specificity for phospholipids and DNA, was used. H chain mutants of 3H9 were constructed, expressed as single-chain Fv (scFv) in Escherichia coli, and assessed for binding to phosphatidylserine, an antigen expressed on apoptotic cells. Both 3H9 and its germline revertant bound to dioleoyl phosphatidylserine in ELISA, and binding was enhanced by β2 glycoprotein I (β2GPI), a plasma protein that selectively binds to apoptotic cells. Higher relative affinity for DOPS-β2GPI was achieved by the introduction of Arg residues into the 3H9 H chain variable region at positions previously shown to mediate DNA binding. Specificity of the two structurally most diverse scFv for apoptotic cells was shown by flow cytometry, and two populations of scFv-bound cells were identified by differences in propidium iodide staining. The results suggest that, in autoimmunity, B cells with Ig receptors for apoptotic cells and DNA are positively selected, and that the antibodies they produce have the potential to affect the clearance and processing of apoptotic cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Immune inhibitory receptor genes that encode a variable (V) region, a unique V-like C2 (V/C2) domain, a transmembrane region, and a cytoplasmic tail containing immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motifs (ITIMs) have been described previously in two lineages of bony fish. In the present study, eleven related genes encoding distinct structural forms have been identified in Ictalurus punctatus (channel catfish), a well characterized immunological model system that represents a third independent bony fish lineage. Each of the different genes encodes an N-terminal V region but differs in the number of extracellular Ig domains, number and location of joining (J) region-like motifs, presence of transmembrane regions, presence of charged residues in transmembrane regions, presence of cytoplasmic tails, and/or distribution of ITIM(s) within the cytoplasmic tails. Variation in the numbers of genomic copies of the different gene types, their patterns of expression, and relative levels of expression in mixed leukocyte cultures (MLC) is reported. V region-containing immune-type genes constitute a far more complex family than recognized originally and include individual members that might function in inhibitory or, potentially activatory manners.
DOC DONE!Abstract
CD1d-restricted invariant NKT (iNKT) cells are immunoregulatory cells whose loss exacerbates diabetes in nonobese diabetic (NOD) female mice. Here, we show that the relative numbers of iNKT cells from the pancreatic islets of NOD mice decrease at the time of conversion from peri-insulitis to invasive insulitis and diabetes. Conversely, NOD male mice who have a low incidence of diabetes showed an increased frequency of iNKT cells. Moreover, administration of α-galactosylceramide, a potent activating ligand presented by CD1d, ameliorated the development of diabetes in NOD female mice and resulted in the accumulation of iNKT cells and myeloid dendritic cells (DC) in pancreatic lymph nodes (PLN), but not in inguinal lymph nodes. Strikingly, injection of NOD female mice with myeloid DC isolated from the PLN, but not those from the inguinal lymph nodes, completely prevented diabetes. Thus, the immunoregulatory role of iNKT cells is manifested by the recruitment of tolerogenic myeloid DC to the PLN and the inhibition of ongoing autoimmune inflammation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The antimicrobial effect of nitric oxide (NO) is an essential part of innate immunity. The vigorous host response to the human gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori fails to eradicate the organism, despite up-regulation of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) in the gastric mucosa. Here we report that wild-type strains of H. pylori inhibit NO production by activated macrophages at physiologic concentrations of l-arginine, the common substrate for iNOS and arginase. Inactivation of the gene rocF, encoding constitutively expressed arginase in H. pylori, restored high-output NO production by macrophages. By using HPLC analysis, we show that l-arginine is effectively consumed in the culture medium by wild-type but not arginase-deficient H. pylori. The substantially higher levels of NO generated by macrophages cocultured with rocF-deficient H. pylori resulted in efficient killing of the bacteria, whereas wild-type H. pylori exhibited no loss of survival under these conditions. Killing of the arginase-deficient H. pylori was NO-dependent, because peritoneal macrophages from iNOS−/− mice failed to affect the survival of the rocF mutant. Thus, bacterial arginase allows H. pylori to evade the immune response by down-regulating eukaryotic NO production.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Dim expression of CD5 on human B lymphocytes has been used to delineate B1 and B2 subsets. Nevertheless, others have suggested that the molecule is an activation marker and does not predicate a subset distinction. We have used enzymatic amplification staining, a technology that enhances the resolution of flow cytometric analysis of cell surface molecules by as much as 100-fold, to determine that essentially all human B cells express CD5. Furthermore, we show that this expression is regulated during Epstein–Barr virus transformation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and its G protein-coupled receptors, VPAC1R and VPAC2R, are prominent in the immune system and regulate many aspects of T cell-dependent immunity. In mouse T cells, VPAC1R is expressed constitutively, whereas VPAC2R is induced by immune stimuli. VPAC2R-null (VPAC2R−/−) mice on a C57BL/6 background are shown here to have normal basic immune characteristics, including serum Ig concentrations, blood levels of all leukocytes, and spleen number of total T cells (CD3+) and T cells bearing CD4, CD8, and CD28. Hapten-evoked cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) was significantly enhanced in VPAC2R-null mice compared with age- and sex-matched wild-type mice. In contrast, generation of IgE anti-hapten antibodies and active cutaneous anaphylaxis were ≥70% lower in VPAC2R-null mice than in wild-type controls. Cytokine production by splenic CD4+ T cells, stimulated with adherent anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28 antibodies, revealed higher levels of IL-2 (mean = 3-fold) and IFN-γ (mean = 3-fold), and lower levels of IL-4 (mean = one-fifth) in VPAC2R-null mice than wild-type controls. Loss of VIP-VPAC2R maintenance of the normal ratio of Th2/Th1 cytokines thus leads to a state of enhanced DTH and depressed immediate-type hypersensitivity, which may alter both host defense and susceptibility to immune-mediated diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Immunoglobulin class-switch recombination (CSR) gives rise to looped-out circular DNA of a cleaved S segment, which is lost eventually after cell divisions. To understand the molecular mechanism of S region cleavage during CSR, we constructed artificial CSR substrates in which inversion-type CSR takes place to retain the cleaved S segment. Sequencing analyses of recombinant clones of these substrates revealed that varying degrees of deletions and duplications exist at CSR breakpoints, suggesting the involvement of staggered cleavage of the S region in CSR. In addition, mutations frequently found near junctions showed a similar profile of base replacement to Ig somatic hypermutation. These findings suggest that single-strand tails of staggered cleavage may be repaired by error-prone DNA synthesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
PD-1 is an immunoreceptor that belongs to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily and contains two tyrosine residues in the cytoplasmic region. Studies on PD-1-deficient mice have shown that PD-1 plays critical roles in establishment and/or maintenance of peripheral tolerance, but the mode of action is totally unknown. To study the molecular mechanism for negative regulation of lymphocytes through the PD-1 receptor, we generated chimeric molecules composed of the IgG Fc receptor type IIB (FcγRIIB) extracellular region and the PD-1 cytoplasmic region and expressed them in a B lymphoma cell line, IIA1.6. Coligation of the cytoplasmic region of PD-1 with the B cell receptor (BCR) in IIA1.6 transformants inhibited BCR-mediated growth retardation, Ca2+ mobilization, and tyrosine phosphorylation of effector molecules, including Igβ, Syk, phospholipase C-γ2 (PLCγ2), and ERK1/2, whereas phosphorylation of Lyn and Dok was not affected. Mutagenesis studies indicated that these inhibitory effects do not require the N-terminal tyrosine in the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif-like sequence, but do require the other tyrosine residue in the C-terminal tail. This tyrosine was phosphorylated and recruited src homology 2-domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP-2) on coligation of PD-1 with BCR. These results show that PD-1 can inhibit BCR signaling by recruiting SHP-2 to its phosphotyrosine and dephosphorylating key signal transducers of BCR signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using a polypeptide oligomer harboring 16 repeats of the neuritogenic epitope (aa 58–73) of myelin P2 protein separated by spacers, enhancement of the immune response to the P2 protein, an important neuritogenic autoantigen in experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN), was attempted. In contrast to a previous study with PLP-16-mer antigen-specific response of T cells was attenuated at all doses examined to a variable degree. Treatment of Lewis rats with the P2-16-mer up to 2 months before immunization with P253–78 (vaccination) or after immunization but before appearance of disease (prevention) had a strong tolerizing effect against the induction of EAN on immunization with P253–78. Moreover, rats injected with 200 μg of the P2-16-mer i.v. on day 11 after disease induction, at which time the initial signs of disease had appeared, were almost completely protected against progression of clinical disease, whereas animals treated with the same amount of monomeric control peptide developed severe disease (treatment). Similar results were obtained by i.v. treatment of adoptive-transfer EAN with the P2-16-mer. The lack of clinical signs of disease after 16-mer therapy could be correlated with a reduced proliferative response of P253–78-specific lymph node cells. The frequency of apoptotic T cells in sciatic nerve or in lymph node cells, however, was not increased by the 16-mer treatment, suggesting that induction of anergy or other forms of peripheral tolerance may be responsible for the effect. Thus, the oligomerized P2 peptide antigen was highly effective in all three treatment modalities examined in this specific autoreactive T cell-mediated immune response.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In chronic viral infections of humans and experimental animals, virus-specific CD4+ T cell function is believed to be critical for induction and maintenance of host immunity that mediates effective restriction of viral replication. Because in vitro proliferation of HIV-specific memory CD4+ T cells is only rarely demonstrable in HIV-infected individuals, it is presumed that HIV-specific CD4+ T cells are killed upon encountering the virus, and maintenance of CD4+ T cell responses in some patients causes the restriction of virus replication. In this study, proliferative responses were absent in patients with poorly restricted virus replication although HIV-specific CD4+ T cells capable of producing IFN-γ were detected. In a separate cohort, interruption of antiretroviral therapy resulted in the rapid and complete abrogation of virus-specific proliferation although HIV-1-specific CD4+ T cells were present. HIV-specific proliferation returned when therapy was resumed and virus replication was controlled. Further, HIV-specific CD4+ T cells of viremic patients could be induced to proliferate in response to HIV antigens when costimulation was provided by anti-CD28 antibody in vitro. Thus, HIV-1-specific CD4+ T cells persist but remain poorly responsive (produce IFN-γ but do not proliferate) in viremic patients. Unrestricted virus replication causes diminished proliferation of virus-specific CD4+ T cells. Suppression of proliferation of HIV-specific CD4+ T cells in the context of high levels of antigen may be a mechanism by which HIV or other persistently replicating viruses limit the precursor frequency of virus-specific CD4+ T cells and disrupt the development of effective virus-specific immune responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A role for caspase-10, previously implicated in the autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, in death receptor signaling has not been directly shown. Here we show that caspase-10 can function independently of caspase-8 in initiating Fas- and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-receptor-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, Fas crosslinking in primary human T cells leads to the recruitment and activation of caspase-10. Fluorescent resonance energy transfer analysis indicates that the death-effector domains of caspase-8 and -10 both interact with the death-effector domain of FADD. Nonetheless, we find that caspase-8 and -10 may have different apoptosis substrates and therefore potentially distinct roles in death receptor signaling or other cellular processes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
S100A1, a Ca2+ binding protein of the EF-hand type, is preferentially expressed in myocardial tissue and has been found to colocalize with the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and the contractile filaments in cardiac tissue. Because S100A1 is known to modulate SR Ca2+ handling in skeletal muscle, we sought to investigate the specific role of S100A1 in the regulation of myocardial contractility. To address this issue, we investigated contractile properties of adult cardiomyocytes as well as of engineered heart tissue after S100A1 adenoviral gene transfer. S100A1 gene transfer resulted in a significant increase of unloaded shortening and isometric contraction in isolated cardiomyocytes and engineered heart tissues, respectively. Analysis of intracellular Ca2+ cycling in S100A1-overexpressing cardiomyocytes revealed a significant increase in cytosolic Ca2+ transients, whereas in functional studies on saponin-permeabilized adult cardiomyocytes, the addition of S100A1 protein significantly enhanced SR Ca2+ uptake. Moreover, in Triton-skinned ventricular trabeculae, S100A1 protein significantly decreased myofibrillar Ca2+ sensitivity ([EC50%]) and Ca2+ cooperativity, whereas maximal isometric force remained unchanged. Our data suggest that S100A1 effects are cAMP independent because cellular cAMP levels and protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation of phospholamban were not altered, and carbachol failed to suppress S100A1 actions. These results show that S100A1 overexpression enhances cardiac contractile performance and establish the concept of S100A1 as a regulator of myocardial contractility. S100A1 thus improves cardiac contractile performance both by regulating SR Ca2+ handling and myofibrillar Ca2+ responsiveness.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Steroid hormones are central regulators of a variety of biological processes. According to the free hormone hypothesis, steroids enter target cells by passive diffusion. However, recently we demonstrated that 25(OH) vitamin D3 complexed to its plasma carrier, the vitamin D-binding protein, enters renal proximal tubules by receptor-mediated endocytosis. Knockout mice lacking the endocytic receptor megalin lose 25(OH) vitamin D3 in the urine and develop bone disease. Here, we report that cubilin, a membrane-associated protein colocalizing with megalin, facilitates the endocytic process by sequestering steroid–carrier complexes on the cellular surface before megalin-mediated internalization of the cubilin-bound ligand. Dogs with an inherited disorder affecting cubilin biosynthesis exhibit abnormal vitamin D metabolism. Similarly, human patients with mutations causing cubilin dysfunction exhibit urinary excretion of 25(OH) vitamin D3. This observation identifies spontaneous mutations in an endocytic receptor pathway affecting cellular uptake and metabolism of a steroid hormone.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The molecular basis of human leukemia is heterogeneous. Cytogenetic findings are increasingly associated with molecular abnormalities, some of which are being understood at the functional level. Specific therapies can be developed based on such knowledge. To search for new genes in the acute leukemias, we performed a representational difference analysis. We describe a human gene in chromosome 8q22.3, BAALC (brain and acute leukemia, cytoplasmic), that is highly conserved among mammals but evidently absent from lower organisms. We characterized BAALC on the genomic level and investigated its expression pattern in human and mouse, as well as its complex splicing behavior. In vitro studies of the protein showing its subcellular localization suggest a function in the cytoskeleton network. Two isoforms are specifically expressed in neuroectoderm-derived tissues, but not in tumors or cancer cell lines of nonneural tissue origin. We show that blasts from a subset of patients with acute leukemia greatly overexpress eight different BAALC transcripts, resulting in five protein isoforms. Among patients with acute myeloid leukemia, those overexpressing BAALC show distinctly poor prognosis, pointing to a key role of the BAALC products in leukemia. Our data suggest that BAALC is a gene implicated in both neuroectodermal and hematopoietic cell functions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transmission of HIV-1 with reduced susceptibility to antiretroviral drugs raises public health concerns. Through surveillance of drug-resistant HIV-1 in 603 treatment-naïve, recently diagnosed HIV-1-infected persons, we identified a distinct group of viruses that have mutations at codon 215 of the reverse transcriptase (RT) gene that are different from either the wild-type (WT) T or the zidovudine (AZT)-selected T215Y/F. These mutations included 215D/C/S and were found in 20 patients (3.3%). The 215D, 215C, and 215S mutations differ from 215Y by a 1-nt change compared with 2 nt for the WT T215 and likely represent revertants of 215Y. These viruses all were found to have WT susceptibility to AZT, and all replicated efficiently as WT HIV-1T215. However, differences in fitness among HIV-1215D, HIV-1215C, and HIV-1215S were seen when RT backgrounds were changed, demonstrating a role of the RT background in the selection of these revertants. In vitro selection with AZT showed that HIV-1215D and HIV-1215C acquired 215Y more rapidly than did WT HIV-1T215, likely reflecting the need for only 1-nt change to evolve to 215Y. Our study demonstrates that HIV-1 with unusual mutations at codon 215 replicate efficiently, have WT susceptibility, and are commonly found in treatment-naïve persons. The increased ability for selecting resistance mutations defines this class of WT HIV-1 and highlights the higher potential of these viruses to compromise the efficacy of antiretroviral therapy.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The development of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice provides for their use as a model of human type 1 diabetes. To test the feasibility of muscle-directed gene therapy to prevent type 1 diabetes, we developed recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors containing murine cDNAs for immunomodulatory cytokines IL-4 or IL-10. Skeletal muscle transduction of female NOD mice with IL-10, but not IL-4, completely abrogated diabetes. rAAV-IL-10 transduction attenuated the production of insulin autoantibodies, quantitatively reduced pancreatic insulitis, maintained islet insulin content, and altered splenocyte cytokine responses to mitogenic stimulation. The beneficial effects were host specific, as adoptive transfer of splenocytes from rAAV IL-10-treated animals rapidly imparted diabetes in naive hosts, and the cells contained no protective immunomodulatory capacity, as defined through adoptive cotransfer analyses. These results indicate the utility for rAAV, a vector with advantages for therapeutic gene delivery, to transfer immunoregulatory cytokines capable of preventing type 1 diabetes. In addition, these studies provide foundational support for the concept of using immunoregulatory agents delivered by rAAV to modulate a variety of disorders associated with deleterious immune responses, including allergic reactions, transplantation rejection, immunodeficiencies, and autoimmune disorders.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are transcriptional regulators of glucose, lipid, and cholesterol metabolism. We report the x-ray crystal structure of the ligand binding domain of PPARα (NR1C1) as a complex with the agonist ligand GW409544 and a coactivator motif from the steroid receptor coactivator 1. Through comparison of the crystal structures of the ligand binding domains of the three human PPARs, we have identified molecular determinants of subtype selectivity. A single amino acid, which is tyrosine in PPARα and histidine in PPARγ, imparts subtype selectivity for both thiazolidinedione and nonthiazolidinedione ligands. The availability of high-resolution cocrystal structures of the three PPAR subtypes will aid the design of drugs for the treatments of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
HIV-1 particle production occurs in a series of steps promoted by the viral Gag protein. Although it is well established that assembly and release take place at the plasma membrane, the nature of membrane assembly sites remains poorly understood. We show here that Gag specifically associates with cholesterol-enriched microdomains (“rafts”) at the plasma membrane. Kinetic studies demonstrate that raft association follows membrane binding, and the analysis of Gag mutants reveals that, whereas the N terminus of Gag mediates raft binding, this association is greatly enhanced by Gag–Gag interaction domains. We observe that depletion of cellular cholesterol markedly and specifically reduces HIV-1 particle production. Furthermore, treatment of virus-producing cells or virus particles with raft-disrupting agents significantly impairs virus infectivity. These results identify the association of Gag with plasma membrane rafts as an important step in HIV-1 replication. These findings may lead to novel strategies for suppressing HIV-1 replication in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cellular chaperone, HSP90, is identified here as an essential factor for the activity of NS2/3 protease of hepatitis C virus. The cleavage activity of NS2/3 protease synthesized in reticulocyte lysate is ATP-dependent, as evidenced by ATP depletion experiments and inhibition with nonhydrolyzable ATP analogs. Geldanamycin and radicicol, ATP-competitive inhibitors of the chaperone HSP90, also inhibit the cleavage of in vitro-synthesized NS2/3. Furthermore, these HSP90 inhibitors prevent NS2/3 cleavage when the protease is expressed in mammalian cells. The physical association of NS2/3 with HSP90 is demonstrated by immunoprecipitation. Thus, by way of a chaperone/folding activity, an HSP90-containing complex is required for maturation of the polyprotein that encodes the enzymes essential for hepatitis C virus replication.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The proteinase-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2) is a member of a family of G protein-coupled receptors for proteases. Proteases cleave PARs within the extracellular N-terminal domains to expose tethered ligands that bind to and activate the cleaved receptors. PAR-2 is highly expressed in colon in epithelial and neuronal elements. In this study we show that PAR-2 activation prevents the development and induces healing of T helper cell type 1-mediated experimental colitis induced by intrarectal administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) in mice. A role for PAR-2 in the protection against colon inflammation was explored by the use of SLIGRL-NH2, a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the mouse tethered ligand exposed after PAR-2 cleavage. TNBS-induced colitis was dose-dependently reduced by the administration of SLIGRL-NH2, whereas the scramble control peptide, LSIGRL-NH2, was uneffective. This beneficial effect was reflected by increased survival rates, improvement of macroscopic and histologic scores, decrease in mucosal content of T helper cell type 1 cytokines, protein, and mRNA, and a diminished myeloperoxidase activity. SLIGRL-NH2, but not the scramble peptide, directly inhibited IFN-γ secretion and CD44 expression on lamina propria T lymphocytes. Protection exerted by PAR-2 in TNBS-treated mice was reverted by injecting mice with a truncated form of calcitonin gene-related peptide and by sensory neurons ablation with the neurotoxin capsaicin. Collectively, these studies show that PAR-2 is an anti-inflammatory receptor in the colon and suggest that PAR-2 ligands might be effective in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adoptive transfer experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (AT-EAE), a disease resembling multiple sclerosis, is induced in rats by myelin basic protein (MBP)-activated CD4+ T lymphocytes. By patch-clamp analysis, encephalitogenic rat T cells stimulated repeatedly in vitro expressed a unique channel phenotype (“chronically activated”) with large numbers of Kv1.3 voltage-gated channels (≈1500 per cell) and small numbers of IKCa1 Ca2+-activated K+ channels (≈50–120 per cell). In contrast, resting T cells displayed 0–10 Kv1.3 and 10–20 IKCa1 channels per cell (“quiescent” phenotype), whereas T cells stimulated once or twice expressed ≈200 Kv1.3 and ≈350 IKCa1 channels per cell (“acutely activated” phenotype). Consistent with their channel phenotype, [3H]thymidine incorporation by MBP-stimulated chronically activated T cells was suppressed by the peptide ShK, a blocker of Kv1.3 and IKCa1, and by an analog (ShK-Dap22) engineered to be highly specific for Kv1.3, but not by a selective IKCa1 blocker (TRAM-34). The combination of ShK-Dap22 and TRAM-34 enhanced the suppression of MBP-stimulated T cell proliferation. Based on these in vitro results, we assessed the efficacy of K+ channel blockers in AT-EAE. Specific and simultaneous blockade of the T cell channels by ShK or by a combination of ShK-Dap22 plus TRAM-34 prevented lethal AT-EAE. Blockade of Kv1.3 alone with ShK-Dap22, but not of IKCa1 with TRAM-34, was also effective. When administered after the onset of symptoms, ShK or the combination of ShK-Dap22 plus TRAM-34 greatly ameliorated the clinical course of both moderate and severe AT-EAE. We conclude that selective targeting of Kv1.3, alone or with IKCa1, may provide an effective new mode of therapy for multiple sclerosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Once mutated, a single cell must expand into a clone before becoming significant for carcinogenesis. The forces driving clonal expansion and the obstacles that must be overcome are poorly understood. In a genetic mechanism, acquiring a second mutation conferring a proliferative advantage would enable the cell to expand autonomously. If carcinogen exposure instead induced a physiological change, clonal expansion would require the carcinogen's continued presence. To determine which is the case, we studied microscopic clones of keratinocytes mutated in the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Carcinogen exposure was controlled by irradiating mice with 280–320 nm UV radiation (UVB), sunlight's principal carcinogenic component; expansion of mutant clones was observed in epidermal sheets. p53-mutant clones grew only during chronic UVB exposure. Therefore, clonal expansion was not triggered by a proliferative mutation but was instead continually driven by UVB. Unexpectedly, the clone size distribution showed periodicity with maxima at estimated intervals of 16 ± 6 cells, the size of the epidermal proliferating unit in murine dorsal skin. In the absence of UVB, rare “imprisoned clones” increased in cell number without increasing in area. We conclude that: stem cell compartments act as physical barriers to clonal expansion of a p53-mutant keratinocyte; a rate-limiting step in clonal expansion is the colonization of an adjacent compartment; and sustained UVB enables the p53-mutant keratinocyte to colonize without incurring an additional mutation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Semaphorins SEMA3B and its homologue SEMA3F are 3p21.3 candidate tumor suppressor genes (TSGs), the expression of which is frequently lost in lung cancers. To test the TSG candidacy of SEMA3B and SEMA3F, we transfected them into lung cancer NCI-H1299 cells, which do not express either gene. Colony formation of H1299 cells was reduced 90% after transfection with wild-type SEMA3B compared with the control vector. By contrast, only 30–40% reduction in colony formation was seen after the transfection of SEMA3F or SEMA3B variants carrying lung cancer-associated single amino acid missense mutations. H1299 cells transfected with wild-type but not mutant SEMA3B underwent apoptosis. We found that lung cancers (n = 34) always express the neuropilin-1 receptor for secreted semaphorins, whereas 82% expressed the neuropilin-2 receptor. Because SEMA3B and SEMA3F are secreted proteins, we tested conditioned medium from COS-7 cells transfected with SEMA3B and SEMA3F and found that medium from wild-type SEMA3B transfectants reduced the growth of several lung cancer lines 30–90%, whereas SEMA3B mutants or SEMA3F had little effect in the same assay. Sequencing of sodium bisulfite-treated DNA showed dense methylation of CpG sites in the SEMA3B 5′ region of lung cancers not expressing SEMA3B but no methylation in SEMA3B-expressing tumors. These results are consistent with SEMA3B functioning as a TSG, the expression of which is inactivated frequently in lung cancers by allele loss and promoter region methylation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In vivo studies have shown T cells to be central to the mechanism by which estrogen deficiency induces bone loss, but the mechanism involved remains, in part, undefined. In vitro, T cells from ovariectomized mice produce increased amounts of tumor necrosis factor (TNF), which augments receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis. However, both the mechanism and the relevance of this phenomenon in vivo remain to be established. In this study, we found that ovariectomy increased the number of bone marrow T cell-producing TNF without altering production of TNF per T cell. Attesting to the essential contribution of TNF, ovariectomy induced rapid bone loss in wild type (wt) mice but failed to do so in TNF-deficient (TNF−/−) mice. Furthermore, ovariectomy induced bone loss, which was absent in T cell-deficient nude mice, was restored by adoptive transfer of wt T cells, but not by reconstitution with T cells from TNF−/− mice. These findings demonstrate the key causal role of T cell-produced TNF in the bone loss after estrogen withdrawal. Finally, ovariectomy caused bone loss in wt mice and in mice lacking p75 TNF receptor but failed to do so in mice lacking the p55 TNF receptor. These findings demonstrate that enhanced T cell production of TNF resulting from increased bone marrow T cell number is a key mechanism by which estrogen deficiency induces bone loss in vivo. The data also demonstrate that the bone-wasting effect of TNF in vivo is mediated by the p55 TNF receptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have analyzed the pattern of gene expression in human primary CD34+ stem/progenitor cells. We identified 42,399 unique serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) tags among 106,021 SAGE tags collected from 2.5 × 106 CD34+ cells purified from bone marrow. Of these unique SAGE tags, 21,546 matched known expressed sequences, including 3,687 known genes, and 20,854 were novel without a match. The SAGE tags that matched known sequences tended to be at higher levels, whereas the novel SAGE tags tended to be at lower levels. By using the generation of longer sequences from SAGE tags for gene identification (GLGI) method, we identified the correct gene for 385 of 440 high-copy SAGE tags that matched multiple genes and we generated 198 novel 3′ expressed sequence tags from 138 high-copy novel SAGE tags. We observed that many different SAGE tags were derived from the same genes, reflecting the high heterogeneity of the 3′ untranslated region in the expressed genes. We compared the quantitative relationship for genes known to be important in hematopoiesis. The qualitative identification and quantitative measure for each known gene, expressed sequence tag, and novel SAGE tag provide a base for studying normal gene expression in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells and for studying abnormal gene expression in hematopoietic diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The CFTR gene encodes a transmembrane conductance regulator, which is dysfunctional in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The mechanism by which defective CFTR (CF transmembrane conductance regulator) leads to undersialylation of plasma membrane glycoconjugates, which in turn promote lung pathology and colonization with Pseudomonas aeruginosa causing lethal bacterial infections in CF, is not known. Here we show by ratiometric imaging with lumenally exposed pH-sensitive green fluorescent protein that dysfunctional CFTR leads to hyperacidification of the trans-Golgi network (TGN) in CF lung epithelial cells. The hyperacidification of TGN, glycosylation defect of plasma membrane glycoconjugates, and increased P. aeruginosa adherence were corrected by incubating CF respiratory epithelial cells with weak bases. Studies with pharmacological agents indicated a role for sodium conductance, modulated by CFTR regulatory function, in determining the pH of TGN. These studies demonstrate the molecular basis for defective glycosylation of lung epithelial cells and bacterial pathogenesis in CF, and suggest a cure by normalizing the pH of intracellular compartments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Bacteria have long been thought of as little more than sacks of homogeneously distributed enzymes. However, recent cytological studies indicate that bacteria are compartmentalized with proteins involved in processes such as cell division, motility, chemotaxis, and development located at distinct sites. We have used the green fluorescent protein as a reporter to determine the cellular distribution of the extracellular protein secretion (eps)-encoded type II secretion complex responsible for extracellular secretion of cholera toxin and hemagglutinin/protease in Vibrio cholerae. Real-time monitoring of green fluorescent protein fused to EpsM in living cells indicated that, like the single polar flagellum, the Eps complex is located at the old pole after cell division. Eps-dependent protease secretion was also visualized in single cells by fluorescence microscopy by using intramolecularly quenched casein. This analysis demonstrated that active protease secretion is focused at the poles and colocalizes with the site of the polar Eps apparatus. These results suggest that the type II secretion complex is responsible for directed delivery of virulence factors during cholera pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chlamydia trachomatis is an obligate intracellular human bacterial pathogen that infects epithelial cells of the eye and genital tract. Infection can result in trachoma, the leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide, and sexually transmitted diseases. A common feature of infection is a chronic damaging inflammatory response for which the molecular pathogenesis is not understood. It has been proposed that chlamydiae have a cytotoxic activity that contributes to this pathology, but a toxin has not been identified. The C. trachomatis genome contains genes that encode proteins with significant homology to large clostridial cytotoxins. Here we show that C. trachomatis makes a replication-independent cytotoxic activity that produces morphological and cytoskeletal changes in epithelial cells that are indistinguishable from those mediated by clostridial toxin B. A mouse chlamydial strain that encodes a full-length cytotoxin caused pronounced cytotoxicity, as did a human strain that has a shorter ORF with homology to only the enzymatically active site of clostridial toxin B. Cytotoxin gene transcripts were detected in chlamydiae-infected cells, and a protein with the expected molecular mass was present in lysates of infected epithelial cells. The protein was present transiently in infected cells during the period of cytotoxicity. Together, these data provide compelling evidence for a chlamydial cytotoxin for epithelial cells and imply that the cytotoxin is present in the elementary body and delivered to host cells very early during infection. We hypothesize that the cytotoxin is a virulence factor that contributes to the pathogenesis of C. trachomatis diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fruiting body formation of Myxococcus xanthus requires the ordered migration of tens of thousands of cells by using a form of surface motility known as gliding and chemical signal(s) that have yet to be elucidated. Directed movement is regulated by phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) purified from M. xanthus cell membranes. Because the purified PE preparation contains a remarkably diverse mixture of fatty acids, metabolic engineering was used to elucidate the biologically active fatty acid component. The mutational block in an esg mutant, which renders it defective in producing primers for branched-chain fatty acid biosynthesis, was bypassed with one of a series of primers that enriches for a particular family of branched-chain fatty acids. Each PE enrichment was observed for chemotactic activity by using an excitation assay and for fatty acid content. The excitation activity of a PE preparation was generally proportional with the concentration of the fatty acid 16:1ω5c. 1,2-O-Bis[11-(Z)-hexadecenoyl]-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (PE-16:1ω5c/16:1ω5c) was synthesized and elicited an excitation peak at 2 ng. This peak activity occurred at a 1,000-fold lower concentration than dilauroyl PE (PE-12:0/12:0) and the peak magnitude was 2-fold higher. PE containing 16:1ω5c is likely to play a role in development because it is active at physiological concentrations and only under developmental conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Imitation is a complex phenomenon, the neural mechanisms of which are still largely unknown. When individuals imitate an action that already is present in their motor repertoire, a mechanism matching the observed action onto an internal motor representation of that action should suffice for the purpose. When one has to copy a new action, however, or to adjust an action present in one's motor repertoire to a different observed action, an additional mechanism is needed that allows the observer to compare the action made by another individual with the sensory consequences of the same action made by himself. Previous experiments have shown that a mechanism that directly matches observed actions on their motor counterparts exists in the premotor cortex of monkeys and humans. Here we report the results of functional magnetic resonance experiments, suggesting that in the superior temporal sulcus, a higher order visual region, there is a sector that becomes active both during hand action observation and during imitation even in the absence of direct vision of the imitator's hand. The motor-related activity is greater during imitation than during control motor tasks. This newly identified region has all the requisites for being the region at which the observed actions, and the reafferent motor-related copies of actions made by the imitator, interact.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neuropeptides play critical roles in synaptic signaling in all nervous systems. Unlike classical neurotransmitters, peptidergic neurotransmitters are encoded as preproproteins that are posttranslationally processed to yield bioactive neuropeptides. To identify novel peptidergic neurotransmitters, the Caenorhabditis elegans genome was searched for predicted proteins with the structural hallmarks of neuropeptide preproproteins. Thirty-two C. elegans neuropeptide-like protein (nlp) genes were identified. The nlp genes define at least 11 families of putative neuropeptides with unique motifs; similar expressed sequence tags were identified in other invertebrate species for all 11 families. Six of these families are defined by putative bioactive motifs (FAFA, GGxYamide, MRxamide, LQFamide, LxDxamide, and GGARAF); the remaining five families are related to allatostatin, myomodulin, buccalin/drosulfakinin, orcokinin, and APGWamide neuropeptides (MGL/Famide, FRPamide, MSFamide, GFxGF, and YGGWamide families, respectively). Most C. elegans nlp gene expression is in neurons. The C. elegans nlp genes and similar genes encoding putative neuropeptides in other species are likely to play diverse roles in nervous system function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The neuropeptide galanin has been shown to suppress epileptic seizures. In cortical and hippocampal areas, galanin is normally mainly expressed in noradrenergic afferents. We have generated a mouse overexpressing galanin in neurons under the platelet-derived growth factor B promoter. RIA and HPLC analysis revealed up to 8-fold higher levels of galanin in transgenic as compared with wild-type mice. Ectopic galanin overexpression was detected especially in dentate granule cells and hippocampal and cortical pyramidal neurons. Galanin-overexpressing mice showed retardation of seizure generalization during hippocampal kindling, a model for human complex partial epilepsy. The high levels of galanin in mossy fibers found in the transgenic mice were further increased after seizures. Frequency facilitation of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials, a form of short-term synaptic plasticity assessed in hippocampal slices, was reduced in mossy fiber–CA3 cell synapses of galanin-overexpressing mice, indicating suppressed glutamate release. This effect was reversed by application of the putative galanin receptor antagonist M35. These data provide evidence that ectopically overexpressed galanin can be released and dampen the development of epilepsy by means of receptor-mediated action, at least partly by reducing glutamate release from mossy fibers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The song nucleus high vocal center (HVC) sends neural signals for song production and receives auditory input. By using electroencephalography (EEG) to objectively identify wake/sleep state, we show that HVC auditory responses change with physiological states. Comparison of EEG and HVC records revealed that HVC response to auditory stimuli is greatest during slow-wave sleep. During slow-wave sleep, HVC neurons responded preferentially to the bird's own song. Strikingly, both spontaneous and forced waking during sleep caused HVC auditory responses to cease within milliseconds of an EEG-measured state change. State-dependent phenomena in downstream nuclei, such as robustus archistriatalis, are likely to be derivatives of those in HVC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol ester facilitates hormonal secretion and transmitter release, and phorbol ester-induced synaptic potentiation (PESP) is a model for presynaptic facilitation. A variety of PKC isoforms are expressed in the central nervous system, but the isoform involved in the PESP has not been identified. To address this question, we have applied immunocytochemical and electrophysiological techniques to the calyx of Held synapse in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) of rat auditory brainstem. Western blot analysis indicated that both the Ca2+-dependent “conventional” PKC and Ca2+-independent “novel” PKC isoforms are expressed in the MNTB. Denervation of afferent fibers followed by organotypic culture, however, selectively decreased “novel” ɛPKC isoform expressed in this region. The afferent calyx terminal was clearly labeled with the ɛPKC immunofluorescence. On stimulation with phorbol ester, presynaptic ɛPKC underwent autophosphorylation and unidirectional translocation toward the synaptic side. Chelating presynaptic Ca2+, by using membrane permeable EGTA analogue or high concentration of EGTA directly loaded into calyceal terminals, had only a minor attenuating effect on the PESP. We conclude that the Ca2+-independent ɛPKC isoform mediates the PESP at this mammalian central nervous system synapse.
DOC DONE!Abstract
When neural cells were collected from the entire cerebral cortex of developing mouse fetuses (15.5–17.5 days postcoitum) and their nuclei were transferred into enucleated oocytes, 5.5% of the reconstructed oocytes developed into normal offspring. This success rate was the highest among all previous mouse cloning experiments that used somatic cells. Forty-four percent of live embryos at 10.5 days postcoitum were morphologically normal when premature and early-postmitotic neural cells from the ventricular side of the cortex were used. In contrast, the majority (95%) of embryos were morphologically abnormal (including structural abnormalities in the neural tube) when postmitotic-differentiated neurons from the pial side of the cortex were used for cloning. Whereas 4.3% of embryos cloned with ventricular-side cells developed into healthy offspring, only 0.5% of those cloned with differentiated neurons in the pial side did so. These facts seem to suggest that the nuclei of neural cells in advanced stages of differentiation had lost their developmental totipotency. The underlying mechanism for this developmental limitation could be somatic DNA rearrangements in differentiating neural cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Endogenous circadian clocks are robust regulators of physiology and behavior. Synchronization or entrainment of biological clocks to environmental time is adaptive and important for physiological homeostasis and for the proper timing of species-specific behaviors. We studied subjects in the laboratory for up to 55 days each to determine the ability to entrain the human clock to a weak circadian synchronizing stimulus [scheduled activity–rest cycle in very dim (≈1.5 lux in the angle of gaze) light–dark cycle] at three ≈24-h periods: 23.5, 24.0, and 24.6 h. These studies allowed us to test two competing hypotheses as to whether the period of the human circadian pacemaker is near to or much longer than 24 h. We report here that imposition of a sleep–wake schedule with exposure to the equivalent of candlelight during wakefulness and darkness during sleep is usually sufficient to maintain circadian entrainment to the 24-h day but not to a 23.5- or 24.6-h day. Our results demonstrate functionally that, in normally entrained sighted adults, the average intrinsic circadian period of the human biological clock is very close to 24 h. Either exposure to very dim light and/or the scheduled sleep–wake cycle itself can entrain this near-24-h intrinsic period of the human circadian pacemaker to the 24-h day.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The demonstration that the neurosteroid pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS) is active on memory function at both the physiological and pharmacological levels led to us examining in detail the effects of the steroid on spatial working memory by using a two-trial recognition task in a Y-maze, a paradigm based on the natural drive in rodents to explore a novel environment. Dose–response studies in young male adult Sprague–Dawley rats and Swiss mice, after the postacquisition intracerebroventricular injection of steroid, showed an U-inverted curve for memory performance and indicated a greater responsiveness in rats compared with mice. Remarkably, the synthetic (−) enantiomer of PREGS not only also displayed promnesiant activity, but its potency was 10 times higher than that of the natural steroid. Intracerebroventricular coadministration experiments with dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, a competitive selective antagonist of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, abolished the memory-enhancing effect of PREGS, but not that of the PREGS enantiomer, evoking enantiomeric selectivity at the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor and/or different mechanisms for the promnestic function of the two enantiomers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using the yeast two-hybrid system with syntaxin-1A as bait, we isolated soluble NSF attachment protein (SNAP)-29 from a human brain cDNA library. Synaptosomal fractionation and immunocytochemical staining of hippocampal neurons in culture showed that SNAP-29 is present at synapses and is predominantly associated with synaptic vesicles. The interaction of SNAP-29 with syntaxin-1 was further confirmed with immunoprecipitation analysis. Binding competition studies with SNAP-29 demonstrated that it could compete with α-SNAP for binding to synaptic SNAP receptors (SNAREs) and consequently inhibit disassembly of the SNARE complex. Introduction of SNAP-29 into presynaptic superior cervical ganglion neurons in culture significantly inhibited synaptic transmission in an activity-dependent manner. Although SNAP-29 has been suggested to be a general SNARE component in membrane trafficking, our findings suggest that it may function as a regulator of SNARE complex disassembly and modulate the process of postfusion recycling of the SNARE components.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Vertebrate cone photoreceptors are known to show lower light sensitivity and briefer photoresponses than rod photoreceptors. To understand the molecular mechanisms characterizing cone photoresponses, we compared some of the reactions in the phototransduction cascade between rods and cones. For this purpose, rods and cones were obtained in quantities large enough to do biochemical studies. The cells were purified from the retina of carp (Cyprinus carpio) with a stepwise Percoll gradient. The purified rod fraction contained almost no other kinds of cells besides rods, and the purified cone fraction contained a mixture of red-, green-, and blue-sensitive cones in the ratio 3:≈1:≈1. We prepared membrane preparations from the rod and the cone fraction, and in these membranes, we measured activation efficiencies of the reactions in the phototransduction cascade. The results showed that the signal amplification is lower in the cone membranes, which accounts for the lower light sensitivity in cones. Furthermore, we measured the time courses of visual pigment phosphorylation. The result showed that the phosphorylation is much faster in the cone membranes, which also explains the lower light sensitivity and, in addition, the briefer photoresponse in cones.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sound localization in humans depends largely on interaural time delay (ITD). The ability to discriminate differences in ITD is highly accurate. ITD discrimination (Δ ITD) thresholds, under some circumstances, are as low as 10–20 μs. It has been assumed that thresholds this low could only be obtained if the outputs from many neurons were combined. Here we use Receiver Operating Characteristic analysis to compute neuronal Δ ITD thresholds from 53 cells in the inferior colliculus in guinea pigs. The Δ ITD thresholds of single neurons range from several hundreds of μs down to 20–30 μs. The lowest single-cell thresholds are comparable to human thresholds determined with similar stimuli. This finding suggests that the highly accurate sound localization of human observers is consistent with the resolution of single cells and need not reflect the combined activity of many neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The repertoire of Kv1 potassium channels expressed in presynaptic terminals of mammalian central neurons is shaped by intrinsic trafficking signals that determine surface-expression efficiencies of homomeric and heteromeric Kv1 channel complexes. Here, we show that a determinant controlling surface expression of Kv1 channels is localized to the highly conserved pore region. Point-mutation analysis revealed two residues as critical for channel trafficking, one in the extracellular “turret” domain and one in the region distal to the selectivity filter. Interestingly, these same residues also form the binding sites for polypeptide neurotoxins. Our findings demonstrate a previously uncharacterized function for the channel-pore domain as a regulator of channel trafficking.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Animal sounds, as well as human speech sounds, are characterized by multiple parameters such as frequency, intensity, duration, etc. The central auditory system produces neurons tuned to particular durations and frequencies of sounds emitted by a species. In bats, “duration-tuned” neurons are mostly sensitive to short durations and high frequencies of sounds used for echolocation. They are scattered in the frequency maps of the inferior colliculus and auditory cortex. We found that electric stimulation of cortical duration-tuned neurons modulates collicular duration-tuned neurons in both duration and frequency tuning only when collicular and cortical neurons paired for studies are within ±4 ms in best duration and within ±6 kHz in best frequency. There are four types of modulations: sharpening or broadening of duration tuning, and lengthening or shortening of best duration. Sharpening is observed in “matched” collicular neurons whose best durations are the same as those of stimulated cortical neurons, and it is accompanied by augmentation of the auditory responses at their best durations. The other three types of modulations are observed in “unmatched” collicular neurons whose best durations are different from those of stimulated cortical neurons. Lengthening or shortening of best duration is linearly related to the amount of the difference in best duration between collicular and cortical neurons. Corticofugal modulation is specific and systematic according to relationships in both duration and frequency between stimulated cortical and recorded collicular neurons.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cerebellar long-term synaptic depression (LTD) is a model system of neuronal information storage that is expressed postsynaptically as a functional down-regulation of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. What properties of postsynaptic AMPA receptors are changed? Several lines of evidence argue against changes in AMPA-receptor kinetics. Neither LTD evoked in cultured granule-cell Purkinje cell (PC) pairs nor an LTD-like phenomenon evoked by phorbol ester application was associated with alterations in evoked AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory post-synaptic current (EPSC) or mEPSC kinetics. LTD produced by pairing glutamate pulses with depolarization was not altered by prior application of the desensitization-reducing compound cyclothiazide. Finally, rapid application of glutamate to lifted PCs revealed no significant alterations in AMPA-receptor kinetic properties after LTD induction. When this system was used to apply varying concentrations of glutamate, no alteration in AMPA-receptor glutamate affinity was seen after LTD induction. Finally, peak-scaled nonstationary fluctuation analysis was applied to estimate AMPA-receptor unitary conductance before and after LTD induction in a cultured cell pair, and this analysis too revealed no significant change. These results suggest that cerebellar LTD may be expressed solely as a reduction in the number of functional AMPA receptors in the postsynaptic density [Wang, Y.-T. & Linden, D. J. (2000) Neuron 25, 635–664].
DOC DONE!Abstract
The relative importance of lipid rafts vs. specialized rafts termed caveolae to influence signal transduction is not known. Here we show that in cells lacking caveolae, the dually acylated protein, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), localizes to cholesterol-rich lipid raft domains of the plasma membrane. In these cells, expression of caveolin-1 (cav-1) stimulates caveolae biogenesis, promotes the interaction of cav-1 with eNOS, and the inhibition of NO release from cells. Interestingly, in cells where cav-1 does not drive caveolae assembly, despite equal levels of cav-1 and eNOS and localization of both proteins to raft domains of the plasmalemma, the physical interaction of eNOS with cav-1 is dramatically less resulting in less inhibition of NO release. Thus, cav-1 concentrated in caveolae, not in rafts, is in closer proximity to eNOS and is necessary for negative regulation of eNOS function, thereby providing the first clear example of spatial regulation of signaling in this organelle that is distinct from raft domains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By screening a chemical library for the compounds protecting cells from adriamycin (Adr), a series of small molecules was isolated that interfered with the accumulation of Adr in mouse fibroblasts by enhancing efflux of the drug. Isolated compounds also stimulated efflux of Rhodamine 123 (Rho-123), another substrate of multidrug transporters. Stimulation of drug efflux was detectable in the cells expressing P-glycoprotein (P-gp), but not in their P-gp-negative variants, and was completely reversible by the P-gp inhibitors. A dramatic stimulation of P-gp activity against Adr and Rho-123 by the identified compounds was accompanied by suppression of P-gp-mediated efflux of other substrates, such as Taxol (paclitaxel) or Hoechst 33342, indicating that they act as modulators of substrate specificity of P-gp. Consistently, P-gp modulators dramatically altered the pattern of cross-resistance of P-gp-expressing cells to different P-gp substrates: an increase in resistance to Adr, daunorubicin, and etoposide was accompanied by cell sensitization to Vinca alkaloids, gramicidin D, and Taxol with no effect on cell sensitivity to colchicine, actinomycin D, puromycin, and colcemid, as well as to several non-P-gp substrates. The relative effect of P-gp modulators against different substrates varied among the isolated compounds that can be used as fine tools for analyzing mechanisms of drug selectivity of P-gp. These results raise the possibility of a rational control over cell sensitivity to drugs and toxins through modulation of P-gp activity by small molecules.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Using 5′ RACE, we have isolated four additional exons of the mu opioid receptor gene (Oprm), resulting in a gene spanning over 250 kb. The four new exons are contained within eight additional splice variants containing exon 11 at the 5′ terminus. Exon 11, which is under the control of a previously unknown upstream promoter, and exon 12 are located ≈10 kb and ≈8 kb upstream from exon 1, respectively. Exon 13 and 14 are located between exons 1 and 2. The regional distributions of the variants, as determined by reverse transcription-PCR, varied among themselves and were distinct from that of MOR-1, implying region-specific RNA processing. Three variants (MOR-1H, MOR-1I, and MOR-1J) contained two potential translational start points, with the translational start point in exon 1 producing proteins identical to the original MOR-1 protein. When expressed, the receptor binding of these three variants was indistinguishable from that of MOR-1. The remaining eight proteins using the translation start point in exon 11 were all truncated, with three (MOR-1G, MOR-1M, and MOR-1N) predicting proteins of only six transmembrane domains and the rest giving proteins under 10 kDa. Western blots with an exon 11-specific antiserum revealed bands consistent with the six transmembrane domain proteins within the brain, but the shorter proteins were not detected. Thus, the MOR-1 protein can be generated by four different splice variants of the Oprm gene under the control of two physically distinct promoters. Although the truncated proteins are expressed in brain with a unique regional distribution, their functional significance remains unknown.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The HB-19 pseudopeptide 5[Kψ(CH2N)PR]-TASP, ψ(CH2N) for reduced peptide bond, is a specific inhibitor of HIV infection in different CD4+ cell lines and in primary T-lymphocytes and macrophages. It blocks virus-particle attachment to permissive cells by binding and forming a stable complex with nucleolin expressed on the cell surface. Here, we have investigated the tissue distribution of the tritiated HB-19 by using β-radio imager whole-body mapping in rats. A rapid, selective, and stable distribution and accumulation of the systematically administered HB-19 was demonstrated within the spleen, liver, bone, and kidney as soon as 5 min following its administration. No apparent uptake of HB-19 occurred in the brain and the muscle tissue. Interestingly and despite its rapid clearance from the blood, at 24 h postexposure a significant proportion of HB-19 was still recovered from target organs, of which 16–37% could be acounted for intact pseudopeptide. The elimination of HB-19 mainly occurred by renal glomerular filtration and most of the excreted radioactivity appeared to be HB-19 metabolites. Finally, injection of the biotin-labeled HB-19 pseudopeptide but not its control counterpart allowed the recovery of the HB-19–nucleolin complex from the liver, spleen, thymus, and bone marrow, thus indicating that the in vivo molecular target of HB-19 is surface nucleolin. Our results demonstrate the preferential uptake and stability of HB-19 in lymphoid organs that are the site of HIV propagation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The M5 muscarinic receptor is the most recent member of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor family (M1-M5) to be cloned. At present, the physiological relevance of this receptor subtype remains unknown, primarily because of its low expression levels and the lack of M5 receptor-selective ligands. To circumvent these difficulties, we used gene targeting technology to generate M5 receptor-deficient mice (M5R−/− mice). M5R−/− mice did not differ from their wild-type littermates in various behavioral and pharmacologic tests. However, in vitro neurotransmitter release experiments showed that M5 receptors play a role in facilitating muscarinic agonist-induced dopamine release in the striatum. Because M5 receptor mRNA has been detected in several blood vessels, we also investigated whether the lack of M5 receptors led to changes in vascular tone by using several in vivo and in vitro vascular preparations. Strikingly, acetylcholine, a powerful dilator of most vascular beds, virtually lost the ability to dilate cerebral arteries and arterioles in M5R−/− mice. This effect was specific for cerebral blood vessels, because acetylcholine-mediated dilation of extra-cerebral arteries remained fully intact in M5R−/− mice. Our findings provide direct evidence that M5 muscarinic receptors are physiologically relevant. Because it has been suggested that impaired cholinergic dilation of cerebral blood vessels may play a role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and focal cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular M5 receptors may represent an attractive therapeutic target.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ligand-gated ion channels bind agonists with higher affinity in the open than in the closed state. The kinetic basis of this increased affinity has remained unknown, because even though the rate constants of agonist association to and dissociation from closed receptors can be estimated with reasonable certainty, the kinetics of the binding steps in open receptors have proven to be elusive. To be able to measure the agonist-dissociation rate constant from open muscle nicotinic receptors, we increased the probability of ligand unbinding from the open state by engineering a number of mutations that speed up opening and slow down closing but leave the ligand-binding properties unchanged. Single-channel patch-clamp recordings from the wild-type and mutant constructs were performed at very low concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh). The durations of individual channel activations were analyzed assuming that “bursts” of fully liganded (diliganded) receptor openings can be terminated by ligand dissociation from the closed or open state (followed by fast closure) or by desensitization. This analysis revealed that ACh dissociates from diliganded open receptors at ≈24 s−1, that is, ≈2,500 times more slowly than from diliganded closed receptors. This change alone without a concomitant change in the association rate constant to the open state quantitatively accounts for the increased equilibrium affinity of the open channel for ACh. Also, the results predict that both desensitization and ACh dissociation from the open state frequently terminate bursts of openings in naturally occurring gain-of-function mutants (which cause slow-channel congenital myasthenia) and therefore would contribute significantly to the time course of the endplate current decay in these disease conditions.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) water channel contributes to brain water homeostasis in perivascular astrocyte endfeet where it is concentrated. We postulated that AQP4 is tethered at this site by binding of the AQP4 C terminus to the PSD95-Discs large-ZO1 (PDZ) domain of syntrophin, a component of the dystrophin protein complex. Chemical cross-linking and coimmunoprecipitations from brain demonstrated AQP4 in association with the complex, including dystrophin, β-dystroglycan, and syntrophin. AQP4 expression was studied in brain and skeletal muscle of mice lacking α-syntrophin (α-Syn−/−). The total level of AQP4 expression appears normal in brains of α-Syn−/− mice, but the polarized subcellular localization is reversed. High-resolution immunogold analyses revealed that AQP4 expression is markedly reduced in astrocyte endfeet membranes adjacent to blood vessels in cerebellum and cerebral cortex of α-Syn−/− mice, but is present at higher than normal levels in membranes facing neuropil. In contrast, AQP4 is virtually absent from skeletal muscle in α-Syn−/− mice. Deletion of the PDZ-binding consensus (Ser-Ser-Val) at the AQP4 C terminus similarly reduced expression in transfected cell lines, and pulse–chase labeling demonstrated an increased degradation rate. These results demonstrate that perivascular localization of AQP4 in brain requires α-Syn, and stability of AQP4 in the membrane is increased by the C-terminal PDZ-binding motif.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although aquaporin 5 (AQP5) is the major water channel expressed in alveolar type I cells in the lung, its actual role in the lung is a matter of considerable speculation. By using immunohistochemical staining, we show that AQP5 expression in mouse lung is not restricted to type I cells, but is also detected in alveolar type II cells, and in tracheal and bronchial epithelium. Aqp5 knockout (Aqp5−/−) mice were used to analyze AQP5 function in pulmonary physiology. Compared with Aqp5+/+ mice, Aqp5−/− mice show a significantly increased concentration-dependent bronchoconstriction to intravenously administered Ach, as shown by an increase in total lung resistance and a decrease in dynamic lung compliance (P < 0.05). Likewise, Penh, a measure of bronchoconstriction, was significantly enhanced in Aqp5−/− mice challenged with aerosolized methacholine (P < 0.05). The hyperreactivity to bronchoconstriction observed in the Aqp5−/− mice was not due to differences in tracheal smooth muscle contractility in isolated preparations or to altered levels of surfactant protein B. These data suggest a novel pathway by which AQP5 influences bronchoconstriction. This observation is of special interest because studies to identify genetic loci involved in airway hyperresponsiveness associated with asthma bracket genetic intervals on human chromosome 12q and mouse chromosome 15, which contain the Aqp5 gene.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Physical stimulation of airway surfaces evokes liquid secretion, but the events that mediate this vital protective function are not understood. When cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) channel activity was used as a functional readout, we found signaling elements compartmentalized at both extracellular and intracellular surfaces of the apical cell membrane that activate apical Cl− conductance in Calu-3 cells. At the outer surface, ATP was released by physical stimuli, locally converted to adenosine, and sensed by A2B adenosine receptors. These receptors couple to G proteins, adenylyl cyclase, and protein kinase A, at the intracellular face of the apical membrane to activate colocalized CFTR. Thus, airways have evolved highly efficient mechanisms to “flush” noxious stimuli from airway surfaces by selective activation of apical membrane signal transduction and effector systems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mitochondrial nitric oxide synthase (mtNOS), its cellular NOS isoform, and the effects of mitochondrially produced NO on bioenergetics have been controversial since mtNOS was first proposed in 1995. Here we functionally demonstrate the presence of a NOS in cardiac mitochondria. This was accomplished by direct porphyrinic microsensor measurement of Ca2+-dependent NO production in individual mitochondria isolated from wild-type mouse hearts. This NO production could be inhibited by NOS antagonists or protonophore collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential. The similarity of mtNOS to the neuronal isoform was deduced by the absence of NO production in the mitochondria of knockout mice for the neuronal, but not the endothelial or inducible, isoforms. The effects of mitochondrially produced NO on bioenergetics were studied in intact cardiomyocytes isolated from dystrophin-deficient (mdx) mice. mdx cardiomyocytes are also deficient in cellular endothelial NOS, but overexpress mtNOS, which allowed us to study the mitochondrial enzyme in intact cells free of its cytosolic counterpart. In these cardiomyocytes, which produce NO beat-to-beat, inhibition of mtNOS increased myocyte shortening by approximately one-fourth. Beat-to-beat NO production and altered shortening by NOS inhibition were not observed in wild-type cells. A plausible mechanism for the reversible NO inhibition of contractility in these cells involves the reaction of NO with cytochrome c oxidase. This suggests a modulatory role for NO in oxidative phosphorylation and, in turn, myocardial contractility.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Estrogen receptor α (ERα) is essential for male fertility. Its activity is responsible for maintaining epithelial cytoarchitecture in efferent ductules and the reabsorption of fluid for concentrating sperm in the head of the epididymis. These discoveries and others have helped to establish estrogen's bisexual role in reproductive importance. Reported here is the molecular mechanism to explain estrogen's role in fluid reabsorption in the male reproductive tract. It is shown that estrogen regulates expression of the Na+/H+ exchanger-3 (NHE3) and the rate of 22Na+ transport, sensitive to an NHE3 inhibitor. Immunohistochemical staining for NHE3, carbonic anhydrase II (CAII), and aquaporin-I (AQP1) was decreased in ERα knockout (αERKO) efferent ductules. Targeted gene-deficient mice were compared with αERKO, and the NHE3 knockout and CAII-deficient mice showed αERKO-like fluid accumulation, but only the NHE3 knockout and αERKO mice were infertile. Northern blot analysis showed decreases in mRNA for NHE3 in αERKO and antiestrogen-treated mice. The changes in AQP1 and CAII in αERKO seemed to be secondary because of the disruption of apical cytoarchitecture. Ductal epithelial ultrastructure was abnormal only in αERKO mice. Thus, in the male, estrogen regulates one of the most important epithelial ion transporters and maintains epithelial morphological differentiation in efferent ductules of the male, independent of its regulation of Na+ transport. Finally, these data raise the possibility of targeting ERα in developing a contraceptive for the male.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transpiration stream that passes through a plant may follow an apoplastic route, with low resistance to flow, or a cell-to-cell route, in which cellular membranes impede water flow. However, passage of water through membranes can be facilitated by aquaporins thereby decreasing resistance. We investigated the relationship between transpiration, which can be down-regulated by abscisic acid (ABA) or by high humidity, and the osmotic water permeability (Pos) of protoplasts. By using leaf protoplasts of wild-type (wt) Arabidopsis thaliana plants and of mutants that are low in ABA (aba1) or insensitive to ABA (abi1 and abi2), we found that protoplasts from aba1 and abi mutants have very low Pos values compared with those from wt plants when the plants are grown at 45% relative humidity. High values of Pos were found 3 h after the addition of ABA to the culture medium of aba1 plants; addition of ABA to abi plants did not restore the Pos to wt levels. There was no such increase in Pos when excised leaves of aba1 plants were treated with ABA. When the transpiration stream was attenuated by growing the plants at 85% relative humidity, the Pos of protoplasts from all plants (wt and mutants) was higher. We suggest that attenuation of the transpiration stream in whole plants is required for the up-regulation of the Pos of the membranes, and that this up-regulation, which does not require ABA, is mediated by the activation of aquaporins in the plasma membrane.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plants possess two well described thioredoxin systems: a cytoplasmic system including several thioredoxins and an NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase and a specific chloroplastic system characterized by a ferredoxin-dependent thioredoxin reductase. On the basis of biochemical activities, plants also are supposed to have a mitochondrial thioredoxin system as described in yeast and mammals, but no gene encoding plant mitochondrial thioredoxin or thioredoxin reductase has been identified yet. We report the characterization of a plant thioredoxin system located in mitochondria. Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequencing has revealed numerous thioredoxin genes among which we have identified AtTRX-o1, a gene encoding a thioredoxin with a potential mitochondrial transit peptide. AtTRX-o1 and a second gene, AtTRX-o2, define, on the basis of the sequence and intron positions, a new thioredoxin type up to now specific to plants. We also have characterized AtNTRA, a gene encoding a protein highly similar to the previously described cytosolic NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase AtNTRB but with a putative presequence for import into mitochondria. Western blot analysis of A. thaliana subcellular and submitochondrial fractions and in vitro import experiments show that AtTRX-o1 and AtNTRA are targeted to the mitochondrial matrix through their cleavable N-terminal signal. The two proteins truncated to the estimated mature forms were produced in Escherichia coli; AtTRX-o1 efficiently reduces insulin in the presence of DTT and is reduced efficiently by AtNTRA and NADPH. Therefore, the thioredoxin and the NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase described here are proposed to constitute a functional plant mitochondrial thioredoxin system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two Arabidopsis thaliana extragenic mutations that suppress NaCl hypersensitivity of the sos3–1 mutant were identified in a screen of a T-DNA insertion population in the genetic background of Col-0 gl1 sos3–1. Analysis of the genome sequence in the region flanking the T-DNA left border indicated that sos3–1 hkt1–1 and sos3–1 hkt1–2 plants have allelic mutations in AtHKT1. AtHKT1 mRNA is more abundant in roots than shoots of wild-type plants but is not detected in plants of either mutant, indicating that this gene is inactivated by the mutations. hkt1–1 and hkt1–2 mutations can suppress to an equivalent extent the Na+ sensitivity of sos3–1 seedlings and reduce the intracellular accumulation of this cytotoxic ion. Moreover, sos3–1 hkt1–1 and sos3–1 hkt1–2 seedlings are able to maintain [K+]int in medium supplemented with NaCl and exhibit a substantially higher intracellular ratio of K+/Na+ than the sos3–1 mutant. Furthermore, the hkt1 mutations abrogate the growth inhibition of the sos3–1 mutant that is caused by K+ deficiency on culture medium with low Ca2+ (0.15 mM) and <200 μM K+. Interestingly, the capacity of hkt1 mutations to suppress the Na+ hypersensitivity of the sos3–1 mutant is reduced substantially when seedlings are grown in medium with low Ca2+ (0.15 mM). These results indicate that AtHKT1 is a salt tolerance determinant that controls Na+ entry and high affinity K+ uptake. The hkt1 mutations have revealed the existence of another Na+ influx system(s) whose activity is reduced by high [Ca2+]ext.
DOC DONE!Abstract
All plants flower late in their life cycle. For example, in Arabidopsis, the shoot undergoes a transition and produces reproductive flowers after the adult phase of vegetative growth. Much is known about genetic and environmental processes that control flowering time in mature plants. However, little is understood about the mechanisms that prevent plants from flowering much earlier during embryo and seedling development. Arabidopsis embryonic flower (emf1 and emf2) mutants flower soon after germination, suggesting that a floral repression mechanism is established in wild-type plants that prevents flowering until maturity. Here, we show that polycomb group proteins play a central role in repressing flowering early in the plant life cycle. We found that mutations in the Fertilization Independent Endosperm (FIE) polycomb gene caused the seedling shoot to produce flower-like structures and organs. Flower-like structures were also generated from the hypocotyl and root, organs not associated with reproduction. Expression of floral induction and homeotic genes was derepressed in mutant embryos and seedlings. These results suggest that FIE-mediated polycomb complexes are an essential component of a floral repression mechanism established early during plant development.
DOC DONE!Abstract
RGA and GAI are homologous genes that encode putative transcriptional regulators that repress gibberellin (GA) signaling in Arabidopsis. Previously we showed that the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-RGA fusion protein is localized to the nucleus in transgenic Arabidopsis, and expression of this fusion protein rescues the rga null mutation. The GA signal seems to derepress the GA response pathway by degrading the repressor protein RGA. The GA-insensitive, semidominant, semidwarf gai-1 mutant encodes a mutant protein with a 17-amino acid deletion within the DELLA domain of GAI. It was hypothesized that this mutation turns the gai protein into a constitutive repressor of GA signaling. Because the sequences missing in gai-1 are identical between GAI and RGA, we tested whether an identical mutation (rga-Δ17) in the RGA gene would confer a phenotype similar to gai-1. We demonstrated that expression of rga-Δ17 or GFP-(rga-Δ17) under the control of the RGA promoter caused a GA-unresponsive severe dwarf phenotype in transgenic Arabidopsis. Analysis of the mRNA levels of a GA biosynthetic gene, GA4, showed that the feedback control of GA biosynthesis in these transgenic plants was less responsive to GA than that in wild type. Immunoblot and confocal microscopy analyses indicated that rga-Δ17 and GFP-(rga-Δ17) proteins were resistant to degradation after GA application. Our results illustrate that the DELLA domain in RGA plays a regulatory role in GA-induced degradation of RGA. Deletion of this region stabilizes the rga-Δ17 mutant protein, and regardless of the endogenous GA status rga-Δ17 becomes a constitutively active repressor of GA signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An Arabidopsis thaliana chlorophyll(ide) a oxygenase gene (cao), which is responsible for chlorophyll b synthesis from chlorophyll a, was introduced and expressed in a photosystem I-less strain of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. In this strain, most chlorophyll is associated with the photosystem II complex. In line with observations by Satoh et al. [Satoh, S., Ikeuchi, M., Mimuro, M. & Tanaka, A. (2001) J. Biol. Chem. 276, 4293–4297], chlorophyll b was made but accounted for less than 10% of total chlorophyll. However, when lhcb encoding light-harvesting complex (LHC)II from pea was present in the same strain (lhcb+/cao+), chlorophyll b accumulated in the cell to levels exceeding those of chlorophyll a, although LHCII did not accumulate. In the lhcb+/cao+ strain, the total amount of chlorophyll, the number of chlorophylls per photosystem II center, and the oxygen-evolving activity on a per-chlorophyll basis were similar to those in the photosystem I-less strain. Furthermore, the chlorophyll a/b ratio of photosystem II core particles (retaining CP47 and CP43) and of whole cells of the lhcb+/cao+ strain was essentially identical, and PS II activity could be obtained efficiently by chlorophyll b excitation. These data indicate that chlorophyll b functionally substitutes for chlorophyll a in photosystem II. Therefore, the availability of chlorophylls, rather than their binding specificity, may determine which chlorophyll is incorporated at many positions of photosystem II. We propose that the transient presence of a LHCII/chlorophyll(ide) a oxygenase complex in the lhcb+/cao+ strain leads to a high abundance of available chlorophyll b that is subsequently incorporated into photosystem II complexes. The apparent LHCII requirement for high chlorophyll(ide) a oxygenase activity may be instrumental to limit the occurrence of chlorophyll b in plants to LHC proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Strains of the filamentous fungus Cochliobolus carbonum that produce the host-selective compound HC-toxin, a cyclic tetrapeptide, are highly virulent on certain genotypes of maize (Zea mays L.). Production of HC-toxin is under the control of a complex locus, TOX2, which is composed of at least seven linked and duplicated genes that are present only in toxin-producing strains of C. carbonum. One of these genes, TOXE, was earlier shown to be required for the expression of the other TOX2 genes. TOXE has four ankyrin repeats and a basic region similar to those found in basic leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins, but lacks any apparent leucine zipper. Here we show that TOXE is a DNA-binding protein that recognizes a ten-base motif (the “tox-box”) without dyad symmetry that is present in the promoters of all of the known TOX2 genes. Both the basic region and the ankyrin repeats are involved in DNA binding. A region of TOXE that includes the first ankyrin repeat is necessary and sufficient for transcriptional activation in yeast. The data indicate that TOXE is the prototype of a new family of transcription factor, so far found only in plant-pathogenic fungi. TOXE plays a specific regulatory role in HC-toxin production and, therefore, pathogenicity by C. carbonum.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hyperbolic conservation laws are foundational for many branches of
 continuum physics. Discontinuities in the solutions of these partial
 differential equations are widely recognized as a primary difficulty
 for numerical simulation, especially for thermal and shear
 discontinuities and fluid–fluid internal boundaries. We propose
 numerical algorithms that will (i) track these
 discontinuities as sharp internal boundaries, (ii) fully
 conserve the conserved quantities at a discrete level, even at the
 discontinuities, and (iii) display one order of numerical
 accuracy higher globally (at the discontinuity) than algorithms in
 common use. A significant improvement in simulation capabilities is
 anticipated through use of the proposed algorithms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Proper cell division requires an accurate definition
 of the division plane. In bacteria, this plane is determined by a
 polymeric ring of the FtsZ protein. The site of Z ring assembly in turn
 is controlled by the Min system, which suppresses FtsZ polymerization
 at noncentral membrane sites. The Min proteins in Escherichia
 coli undergo a highly dynamic localization cycle, during which
 they oscillate between the membrane of both cell halves. By
 using computer simulations we show that Min protein dynamics can be
 described accurately by using the following assumptions:
 (i) the MinD ATPase self-assembles on the membrane and
 recruits both MinC, an inhibitor of Z ring formation, and MinE, a
 protein required for MinC/MinD oscillation, (ii) a
 local accumulation of MinE is generated by a pattern formation reaction
 that is based on local self-enhancement and a long range antagonistic
 effect, and (iii) it displaces MinD from the membrane
 causing its own local destabilization and shift toward higher MinD
 concentrations. This local destabilization results in a wave of
 high MinE concentration traveling from the cell center to a pole, where
 it disappears. MinD reassembles on the membrane of the other cell half
 and attracts a new accumulation of MinE, causing a wave-like
 disassembly of MinD again. The result is a pole-to-pole oscillation of
 MinC/D. On time average, MinC concentration is highest at the poles,
 forcing FtsZ assembly to the center. The mechanism is self-organizing
 and does not require any other hypothetical topological determinant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Short-range correlated uniform noise in the dispersion coefficient,
 inherent in many types of optical fibers, broadens and eventually
 destroys all initially ultra-short pulses. However, under the
 constraint that the integral of the random component of the dispersion
 coefficient is set to zero (pinned), periodically or quasi-periodically
 along the fiber, the dynamics of the pulse propagation changes
 dramatically. For the case that randomness is present in addition to
 constant positive dispersion, the pinning restriction significantly
 reduces average pulse broadening. If the randomness is present in
 addition to piece-wise constant periodic dispersion with positive
 residual value, the pinning may even provide probability distributions
 of pulse parameters that are numerically indistinguishable from the
 statistically steady case. The pinning method can be used to both
 manufacture better fibers and upgrade existing fiber links.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The anthracycline–DNA complex, which is a potent agent for cancer
 chemotherapy, has a unique intercalating molecular structure with
 preference to the GC bases of DNA, as shown by Rich's group in studies
 of single-crystal x-ray diffraction. Understanding cytotoxicity
 and its photoenhancement requires the unraveling of the dynamics under
 the solution-phase, physiological condition. Here we report our first
 study of the primary processes of drug function. In a series of
 experiments involving the drug (daunomycin and adriamycin) in water,
 the drug–DNA complexes, the complexes with the four nucleotides (dGTP,
 dATP, dCTP, and dTTP), and the drug-apo riboflavin-binding protein, we
 show the direct involvement of molecular oxygen and DNA base-drug
 charge-separation—the rates for the reduction of the drug and
 dioxygen indicate the crucial role of drug/base/O2 in the
 efficient and catalytic redox cycling. These dynamical steps, and the
 subsequent reactions of the superoxide product(s), can account for the
 photoenhanced function of the drug in cells, and potentially for
 the cell death.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The distribution of New England salt marsh communities is
 intrinsically linked to the magnitude, frequency, and duration of tidal
 inundation. Cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora)
 exclusively inhabits the frequently flooded lower elevations, whereas a
 mosaic of marsh hay (Spartina patens), spike grass
 (Distichlis spicata), and black rush (Juncus
 gerardi) typically dominate higher elevations. Monitoring plant
 zonal boundaries in two New England salt marshes revealed that
 low-marsh cordgrass rapidly moved landward at the expense of
 higher-marsh species between 1995 and 1998. Plant macrofossils
 from sediment cores across modern plant community boundaries provided a
 2,500-year record of marsh community composition and documented the
 migration of cordgrass into the high marsh. Isotopic dating revealed
 that the initiation of cordgrass migration occurred in the
 late 19th century and continued through the 20th century. The timing of
 the initiation of cordgrass migration is coincident with an
 acceleration in the rate of sea-level rise recorded by the New
 York tide gauge. These results suggest that increased flooding
 associated with accelerating rates of sea-level rise has stressed
 high-marsh communities and promoted landward migration of cordgrass. If
 current rates of sea-level rise continue or increase slightly over the
 next century, New England salt marshes will be dominated by cordgrass.
 If climate warming causes sea-level rise rates to increase
 significantly over the next century, these cordgrass-dominated marshes
 will likely drown, resulting in extensive losses of coastal wetlands.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The celebrated inequalities of Bell are based on the
 assumption that local hidden parameters exist. When combined with
 conflicting experimental results, these inequalities appear to prove
 that local hidden parameters cannot exist. This contradiction
 suggests to many that only instantaneous action at a distance can
 explain the Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen type of experiments. We show
 that, in addition to the assumption that hidden parameters exist, Bell
 tacitly makes a variety of other assumptions that contribute to his
 being able to obtain the desired contradiction. For instance, Bell
 assumes that the hidden parameters do not depend on time and are
 governed by a single probability measure independent of the analyzer
 settings. We argue that the exclusion of time has neither a physical
 nor a mathematical basis but is based on Bell's translation of the
 concept of Einstein locality into the language of probability theory.
 Our additional set of local hidden variables includes time-like
 correlated parameters and a generalized probability density. We prove
 that our extended space of local hidden variables does not permit
 Bell-type proofs to go forward.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen (EPR) have designed a gedanken
 experiment that suggested a theory that was more complete than quantum
 mechanics. The EPR design was later realized in various forms, with
 experimental results close to the quantum mechanical prediction. The
 experimental results by themselves have no bearing on the EPR claim
 that quantum mechanics must be incomplete nor on the existence of
 hidden parameters. However, the well known inequalities of Bell are
 based on the assumption that local hidden parameters exist and, when
 combined with conflicting experimental results, do appear to prove that
 local hidden parameters cannot exist. This fact leaves only
 instantaneous actions at a distance (called “spooky” by
 Einstein) to explain the experiments. The Bell inequalities are
 based on a mathematical model of the EPR experiments. They have no
 experimental confirmation, because they contradict the results of all
 EPR experiments. In addition to the assumption that hidden parameters
 exist, Bell tacitly makes a variety of other assumptions; for instance,
 he assumes that the hidden parameters are governed by a single
 probability measure independent of the analyzer settings. We argue that
 the mathematical model of Bell excludes a large set of local hidden
 variables and a large variety of probability densities. Our set of
 local hidden variables includes time-like correlated parameters and a
 generalized probability density. We prove that our extended space of
 local hidden variables does permit derivation of the quantum result and
 is consistent with all known experiments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report Raman scattering and visible to near-infrared absorption
 spectra of solid hydrogen under static pressure up to 285 GPa between
 20 and 140 K. We obtain pressure dependences of vibron and
 phonon modes consistent with results previously determined to lower
 pressures. The results indicate the stability of the ordered molecular
 phase III to the highest pressure reached and provide constraints on
 the insulator-to-metal transition pressure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Rolling circle amplification has been useful for detecting point
 mutations in isolated nucleic acids, but its application in cytological
 preparations has been problematic. By pretreating cells with a
 combination of restriction enzymes and exonucleases, we demonstrate
 that rolling circle amplification in situ can detect
 gene copy number and single base mutations in fixed cells with
 efficiencies up to 90%. It can also detect and quantify transcribed
 RNA in individual cells, making it a versatile tool for cell-based
 assays.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The ribosome-associated chaperone trigger factor (TF)
 assists the folding of newly synthesized cytosolic proteins in
 Escherichia coli. Here, we determined the substrate
 specificity of TF by examining its binding to 2842 membrane-coupled
 13meric peptides. The binding motif of TF was identified as a stretch
 of eight amino acids, enriched in basic and aromatic residues and with
 a positive net charge. Fluorescence spectroscopy verified that TF
 exhibited a comparable substrate specificity for peptides in solution.
 The affinity to peptides in solution was low, indicating that TF
 requires ribosome association to create high local concentrations of
 nascent polypeptide substrates for productive interaction in
 vivo. Binding to membrane-coupled peptides occurred through the
 central peptidyl-prolyl-cis/trans
 isomerase (PPIase) domain of TF, however, independently of prolyl
 residues. Crosslinking experiments showed that a TF fragment containing
 the PPIase domain linked to the ribosome via the N-terminal domain is
 sufficient for interaction with nascent polypeptide substrates.
 Homology modeling of the PPIase domain revealed a conserved
 FKBP(FK506-binding protein)-like binding pocket composed of exposed
 aromatic residues embedded in a groove with negative surface charge.
 The features of this groove complement well the determined substrate
 specificity of TF. Moreover, a mutation (E178V) in this putative
 substrate binding groove known to enhance PPIase activity also enhanced
 TF's association with a prolyl-free model peptide in solution and with
 nascent polypeptides. This result suggests that both
 prolyl-independent binding of peptide substrates and peptidyl-prolyl
 isomerization involve the same binding site.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A critical step in the induction of apoptosis is the
 activation of the apoptotic initiator caspase 9. We show
 that at its normal physiological concentration, caspase 9 is primarily
 an inactive monomer (zymogen), and that activity is associated with a
 dimeric species. At the high concentrations used for crystal formation,
 caspase 9 is dimeric, and the structure reveals two very different
 active-site conformations within each dimer. One site closely resembles
 the catalytically competent sites of other caspases, whereas in the
 second, expulsion of the “activation loop” disrupts the
 catalytic machinery. We propose that the inactive domain resembles
 monomeric caspase 9. Activation is induced by dimerization, with
 interactions at the dimer interface promoting reorientation of the
 activation loop. These observations support a model in which
 recruitment by Apaf-1 creates high local concentrations of caspase 9 to
 provide a pathway for dimer-induced activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human DNA polymerase ι (hPolι) promotes translesion synthesis
 by inserting nucleotides opposite highly distorting or noninstructional
 DNA lesions. Here, we provide evidence for the physical
 interaction of hPolι with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA),
 and show that PCNA, together with replication factor C (RFC) and
 replication protein A (RPA), stimulates the DNA synthetic activity of
 hPolι. In the presence of these protein factors, on undamaged DNA,
 the efficiency
 (Vmax/Km) of
 correct nucleotide incorporation by hPolι is increased
 ≈80–150-fold, and this increase in efficiency results from a
 reduction in the apparent Km for the
 nucleotide. PCNA, RFC, and RPA also stimulate nucleotide incorporation
 opposite the 3′-T of the (6) thymine–thymine (T-T) photoproduct and
 opposite an abasic site. The interaction of hPolι with PCNA implies
 that the targeting of this polymerase to the replication machinery
 stalled at a lesion site is achieved via this association.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The four-helical bundle soluble
 N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF)
 attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex that mediates intracellular
 membrane fusion events contains a highly conserved ionic layer at the
 center of an otherwise hydrophobic core. This layer has an undetermined
 function; it consists of glutamine (Q) residues in syntaxin and the two
 synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) family helices, and
 an arginine (R) in vesicle-associated membrane protein (a 3Q:1R
 ratio). Here, we show that the ionic-layer glutamine of syntaxin is
 required for efficient α-SNAP and NSF-mediated dissociation of the
 complex. When this residue is mutated, the SNARE complex still binds to
 α-SNAP and NSF and is released through ATP hydrolysis by NSF, but the
 complex no longer dissociates into SNARE monomers. Thus, one function
 of the ionic layer—in particular, the glutamine of syntaxin—is to
 couple ATP hydrolysis by NSF to the dissociation of the fusion complex.
 We propose that α-SNAP and NSF drive conformational changes at the
 ionic layer through specific interactions with the syntaxin glutamine,
 resulting in the dissociation of the SNARE complex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The crystal structure of the heterotrimeric quinohemoprotein amine
 dehydrogenase from Paracoccus denitrificans has been
 determined at 2.05-Å resolution. Within an 82-residue subunit
 is contained an unusual redox cofactor, cysteine tryptophylquinone
 (CTQ), consisting of an orthoquinone-modified tryptophan side chain
 covalently linked to a nearby cysteine side chain. The subunit is
 surrounded on three sides by a 489-residue, four-domain subunit that
 includes a diheme cytochrome c. Both subunits sit on the
 surface of a third subunit, a 337-residue seven-bladed β-propeller
 that forms part of the enzyme active site. The small catalytic subunit
 is internally crosslinked by three highly unusual covalent
 cysteine to aspartic or glutamic acid thioether linkages in addition to
 the cofactor crossbridge. The catalytic function of the enzyme as well
 as the biosynthesis of the unusual catalytic subunit is discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report the development and initial experimental validation of a
 computational design procedure aimed at generating enzyme-like protein
 catalysts called “protozymes.” Our design approach utilizes a
 “compute and build” strategy that is based on the
 physical/chemical principles governing protein stability and
 catalytic mechanism. By using the catalytically inert
 108-residue Escherichia coli thioredoxin as a scaffold,
 the histidine-mediated nucleophilic hydrolysis of
 p-nitrophenyl acetate as a model reaction, and the
 ORBIT protein design software to compute sequences,
 an active site scan identified two promising catalytic positions and
 surrounding active-site mutations required for substrate binding.
 Experimentally, both candidate protozymes demonstrated catalytic
 activity significantly above background. One of the proteins, PZD2,
 displayed “burst” phase kinetics at high substrate
 concentrations, consistent with the formation of a stable enzyme
 intermediate. The kinetic parameters of PZD2 are comparable to early
 catalytic Abs. But, unlike catalytic Ab design, our design procedure is
 independent of fold, suggesting a possible mechanism for examining the
 relationships between protein fold and the evolvability of protein
 function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
β-Lactamases are the resistance enzymes for β-lactam
 antibiotics, of which four classes are known. β-lactamases hydrolyze
 the β-lactam moieties of these antibiotics, rendering them inactive.
 It is shown herein that the class D OXA-10 β-lactamase depends
 critically on an unusual carbamylated lysine as the basic residue for
 both the enzyme acylation and deacylation steps of catalysis. The
 formation of carbamylated lysine is reversible. Evidence is presented
 that this enzyme is dimeric and carbamylated in living bacteria.
 High-resolution x-ray structures for the native enzyme were determined
 at pH values of 6.0, 6.5, 7.5, and 8.5. Two dimers are present per
 asymmetric unit. One monomer in each dimer was carbamylated at pH 6.0,
 whereas all four monomers were fully carbamylated at pH 8.5. At the
 intermediate pH values, one monomer of each dimer was carbamylated, and
 the other showed a mixture of carbamylated and non-carbamylated
 lysines. It would appear that, as the pH increased for the sample,
 additional lysines were “titrated” by carbamylation. A handful of
 carbamylated lysines are known from protein crystallographic data, all
 of which have been attributed roles in structural stabilization (mostly
 as metal ligands) of the proteins. This paper reports a previously
 unrecognized role for a noncoordinated carbamylate lysine as a
 basic residue involved in mechanistic reactions of an enzyme, which
 indicates another means for expansion of the catalytic capabilities of
 the amino acids in nature beyond the 20 common amino acids in
 development of biological catalysts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
On entering a host cell, positive-strand RNA virus genomes have to
 serve as messenger for the translation of viral proteins. Efficient
 translation of cellular messengers requires interactions between
 initiation factors bound to the 5′-cap structure and the poly(A)
 binding protein bound to the 3′-poly(A) tail. Initiation of
 infection with the tripartite RNA genomes of alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV)
 and viruses from the genus Ilarvirus requires binding of
 a few molecules of coat protein (CP) to the 3′ end of the
 nonpolyadenylated viral RNAs. Moreover, infection with the genomic RNAs
 can be initiated by addition of the subgenomic messenger for CP, RNA 4.
 We report here that extension of the AMV RNAs with a poly(A) tail of 40
 to 80 A-residues permitted initiation of infection independently of CP
 or RNA 4 in the inoculum. Specifically, polyadenylation of RNA 1
 relieved an apparent bottleneck in the translation of the viral RNAs.
 Translation of RNA 4 in plant protoplasts was autocatalytically
 stimulated by its encoded CP. Mutations that interfered with CP binding
 to the 3′ end of viral RNAs reduced translation of RNA 4 to
 undetectable levels. Possibly, CP of AMV and ilarviruses stimulates
 translation of viral RNAs by acting as a functional analogue of poly(A)
 binding protein or other cellular proteins.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The methanogenic archaea Methanocaldococcus
 jannaschii and Methanothermobacter
 thermautotrophicus contain a dual-specificity prolyl-tRNA
 synthetase (ProCysRS) that accurately forms both prolyl-tRNA (Pro-tRNA)
 and cysteinyl-tRNA (Cys-tRNA) suitable for in vivo
 translation. This intriguing enzyme may even perform its dual role in
 organisms that possess a canonical single-specificity cysteinyl-tRNA
 synthetase (CysRS), raising the question as to whether this latter
 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase is indeed required for cell viability. To
 test the postulate that all synthetase genes are essential, we
 disrupted the cysS gene (encoding CysRS) of
 Methanococcus maripaludis. The knockout strain was
 viable under normal growth conditions. Biochemical analysis showed that
 the pure M. maripaludis ProCysRS was capable of forming
 Cys-tRNA, implying that the dual-specificity enzyme compensates
 in vivo for the loss of CysRS. The canonical CysRS has a
 higher affinity for cysteine than ProCysRS, a reason why M.
 maripaludis may have acquired cysS by a late
 lateral gene transfer. These data challenge the notion that all twenty
 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are essential for the viability of a cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA polymerase (pol) δ is essential for both leading and lagging
 strand DNA synthesis during chromosomal replication in
 eukaryotes. Pol δ has been implicated in the Okazaki fragment
 maturation process for the extension of the newly synthesized fragment
 and for the displacement of the RNA/DNA segment of the preexisting
 downstream fragment generating an intermediate flap structure that is
 the target for the Dna2 and flap endonuclease-1 (Fen 1) endonucleases.
 Using a single-stranded minicircular template with an annealed
 RNA/DNA primer, we could measure strand displacement by pol δ
 coupled to DNA synthesis. Our results suggested that pol δ alone can
 displace up to 72 nucleotides while synthesizing through a
 double-stranded DNA region in a distributive manner. Proliferating cell
 nuclear antigen (PCNA) reduced the template dissociation rate of pol
 δ, thus increasing the processivity of both synthesis and strand
 displacement, whereas replication protein A (RP-A) limited the size of
 the displaced fragment down to 20–30 nucleotides, by generating a
 “locked” flap DNA structure, which was a substrate for processing
 of the displaced fragment by Fen 1 into a ligatable product. Our data
 support a model for Okazaki fragment processing where the strand
 displacement activity of DNA polymerase δ is modulated by the
 concerted action of PCNA, RP-A and Fen 1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Δ5 and Δ6 fatty acid desaturases are critical enzymes in
 the pathways for the biosynthesis of the polyunsaturated fatty acids
 arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic, and docosahexaenoic acids. They are
 encoded by distinct genes in mammals and
 Caenorhabditis elegans. This paper
 describes a cDNA isolated from zebrafish (Danio rerio)
 with high similarity to mammalian Δ6 desaturase genes. The 1,590-bp
 sequence specifies a protein that, in common with other fatty acid
 desaturases, contains an N-terminal cytochrome
 b5 domain and three histidine boxes,
 believed to be involved in catalysis. When the zebrafish cDNA was
 expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae it conferred the
 ability to convert linoleic acid (18:2n-6) and
 α-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) to their corresponding Δ6
 desaturated products, 18:3n-6 and
 18:4n-3. However, in addition it conferred on the yeast
 the ability to convert di-homo-γ-linoleic acid
 (20:3n-6) and eicosatetraenoic acid
 (20:4n-3) to arachidonic acid (20:4n-6)
 and eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3), respectively,
 indicating that the zebrafish gene encodes an enzyme having both Δ5
 and Δ6 desaturase activity. The zebrafish Δ5/Δ6
 desaturase may represent a component of a prototypic vertebrate
 polyunsaturated fatty acids biosynthesis pathway.
DOC DONE!Abstract
A general approach to site-specific insertion of amino acid
 analogues into proteins in vivo would be the import into
 cells of a suppressor tRNA aminoacylated with the analogue of choice.
 The analogue would be inserted at any site in the protein specified by
 a stop codon in the mRNA. The only requirement is that the suppressor
 tRNA must not be a substrate for any of the cellular aminoacyl–tRNA
 synthetases. Here, we describe conditions for the import of amber and
 ochre suppressor tRNAs derived from Escherichia coli
 initiator tRNA into mammalian COS1 cells, and we present evidence for
 their activity in the specific suppression of amber (UAG) and ochre
 (UAA) codons, respectively. We show that an aminoacylated amber
 suppressor tRNA (supF) derived from the E.
 coli tyrosine tRNA can be imported into COS1 cells and acts as
 a suppressor of amber codons, whereas the same suppressor tRNA imported
 without prior aminoacylation does not, suggesting that the
 supF tRNA is not a substrate for any mammalian
 aminoacyl–tRNA synthetase. These results open the possibility of using
 the supF tRNA aminoacylated with an amino acid analogue
 as a general approach for the site-specific insertion of amino acid
 analogues into proteins in mammalian cells. We discuss the possibility
 further of importing a mixture of amber and ochre suppressor tRNAs for
 the insertion of two different amino acid analogues into a protein and
 the potential use of suppressor tRNA import for treatment of some of
 the human genetic diseases caused by nonsense mutations.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Nucleosome Remodeling
 Factor (NURF) is an ATP-dependent nucleosome remodeling
 complex that alters chromatin structure by catalyzing nucleosome
 sliding, thereby exposing DNA sequences previously associated with
 nucleosomes. We systematically studied how the unstructured N-terminal
 residues of core histones (the N-terminal histone tails) influence
 nucleosome sliding. We used bacterially expressed
 Drosophila histones to reconstitute hybrid nucleosomes
 lacking one or more histone N-terminal tails. Unexpectedly, we found
 that removal of the N-terminal tail of histone H2B promoted uncatalyzed
 nucleosome sliding during native gel electrophoresis. Uncatalyzed
 nucleosome mobility was enhanced by additional removal of other histone
 tails but was not affected by hyperacetylation of core histones by
 p300. In addition, we found that the N-terminal tail of the histone H4
 is specifically required for ATP-dependent catalysis of nucleosome
 sliding by NURF. Alanine scanning mutagenesis demonstrated that H4
 residues 16-KRHR-19 are critical for the induction of nucleosome
 mobility, revealing a histone tail motif that regulates NURF activity.
 An exchange of histone tails between H4 and H3 impaired NURF-induced
 sliding of the mutant nucleosome, indicating that the location of the
 KRHR motif in relation to global nucleosome structure is functionally
 important. Our results provide functions for the N-terminal
 histone tails in regulating the mobility of nucleosomes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Iron homeostasis in the yeast Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae is regulated at the transcriptional level by Aft1p,
 which activates the expression of its target genes in response to
 low-iron conditions. The yeast genome contains a paralog of
 AFT1, which has been designated AFT2. To
 establish whether AFT1 and AFT2 have
 overlapping functions, a mutant containing a double
 aft1Δaft2Δ deletion was generated.
 Growth assays established that the single aft2Δ strain
 exhibited no iron-dependent phenotype. However, the double-mutant
 aft1Δaft2Δ strain was more sensitive
 to low-iron growth conditions than the single-mutant
 aft1Δ strain. A mutant allele of AFT2
 (AFT2-1up), or
 overexpression of the wild-type AFT2 gene, led to
 partial complementation of the respiratory-deficient phenotype of the
 aft1Δ strain. The
 AFT2-1up allele also
 increased the uptake of 59Fe in an aft1Δ
 strain. DNA microarrays were used to identify genes regulated by
 AFT2. Some of the AFT2-regulated genes
 are known to be regulated by Aft1p; however,
 AFT2-1up-dependent
 activation was independent of Aft1p. The kinetics of induction of two
 genes activated by the
 AFT2-1up allele are
 consistent with Aft2p acting as a direct transcriptional factor.
 Truncated forms of Aft1p and Aft2p bound to a DNA duplex containing the
 Aft1p binding site in vitro. The wild-type allele of
 AFT2 activated transcription in response to growth under
 low-iron conditions. Together, these data suggest that yeast has a
 second regulatory pathway for the iron regulon, with
 AFT1 and AFT2 playing partially redundant
 roles.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The stringent response is defined as the physiological changes
 elicited by amino acid starvation. Many of these changes depend
 on the regulatory nucleotide ppGpp (guanosine tetraphosphate)
 synthesized by RelA (ppGpp synthetase I), the
 relA-encoded protein. The second rel
 locus of Escherichia coli is called relBE
 and encodes RelE cytotoxin and RelB antitoxin. RelB counteracts the
 toxic effect of RelE. In addition, RelB is an autorepressor of
 relBE transcription. Here we reveal a ppGpp-independent
 mechanism that reduces the level of translation during amino acid
 starvation. Artificial overexpression of RelE severely inhibited
 translation. During amino acid starvation, the presence of
 relBE caused a significant reduction in the
 poststarvation level of translation. Concomitantly,
 relBE transcription was rapidly and strongly induced.
 Induction of transcription occurred independently of
 relA and spoT (encoding ppGpp synthetase
 II), but instead depended on Lon protease. Consistently, Lon was
 required for degradation of RelB. Replacement of the
 relBE promoter with a LacI-regulated promoter indicated
 that strong and ongoing transcription of relBE is
 required to maintain a proper RelB:RelE ratio during starvation. Thus
 relBE may be regarded as a previously
 uncharacterized type of stress-response element that reduces the
 global level of translation during nutritional stress.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Regulation of rDNA transcription depends on the formation
 and dissociation of a functional complex between RNA polymerase I (pol
 I) and transcription initiation factor Rrn3p. We analyzed whether
 phosphorylation is involved in this molecular switch. Rrn3p is a
 phosphoprotein that is predominantly phosphorylated in
 vivo when it is not bound to pol I. In vitro,
 Rrn3p is able both to associate with pol I and to enter the
 transcription cycle in its nonphosphorylated form. By contrast,
 phosphorylation of pol I is required to form a stable pol I-Rrn3p
 complex for efficient transcription initiation. Furthermore,
 association of pol I with Rrn3p correlates with a change in the
 phosphorylation state of pol I in vivo. We suggest that
 phosphorylation at specific sites of pol I is a prerequisite for proper
 transcription initiation and that phosphorylation/dephosphorylation
 of pol I is one possibility to modulate cellular rDNA transcription
 activity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The folding, stability, and oligomerization of helical
 membrane proteins depend in part on a precise set of packing
 interactions between transmembrane helices. To understand the energetic
 principles of these helix–helix interactions, we have used
 alanine-scanning mutagenesis and sedimentation equilibrium analytical
 ultracentrifugation to quantitatively examine the sequence dependence
 of the glycophorin A transmembrane helix dimerization. In all cases, we
 found that mutations to alanine at interface positions cost free energy
 of association. In contrast, mutations to alanine away from the dimer
 interface showed free energies of association that are insignificantly
 different from wild-type or are slightly stabilizing. Our study further
 revealed that the energy of association is not evenly distributed
 across the interface, but that there are several “hot spots” for
 interaction including both glycines participating in a GxxxG motif.
 Inspection of the NMR structure indicates that simple principles of
 protein–protein interactions can explain the changes in energy that
 are observed. A comparison of the dimer stability between different
 hydrophobic environments suggested that the hierarchy of stability for
 sequence variants is conserved. Together, these findings imply that the
 protein–protein interaction portion of the overall association energy
 may be separable from the contributions arising from protein–lipid and
 lipid–lipid energy terms. This idea is a conceptual simplification of
 the membrane protein folding problem and has implications for
 prediction and design.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The anthracycline–DNA complex, which is a potent agent for cancer
 chemotherapy, has a unique intercalating molecular structure with
 preference to the GC bases of DNA, as shown by Rich's group in studies
 of single-crystal x-ray diffraction. Understanding cytotoxicity
 and its photoenhancement requires the unraveling of the dynamics under
 the solution-phase, physiological condition. Here we report our first
 study of the primary processes of drug function. In a series of
 experiments involving the drug (daunomycin and adriamycin) in water,
 the drug–DNA complexes, the complexes with the four nucleotides (dGTP,
 dATP, dCTP, and dTTP), and the drug-apo riboflavin-binding protein, we
 show the direct involvement of molecular oxygen and DNA base-drug
 charge-separation—the rates for the reduction of the drug and
 dioxygen indicate the crucial role of drug/base/O2 in the
 efficient and catalytic redox cycling. These dynamical steps, and the
 subsequent reactions of the superoxide product(s), can account for the
 photoenhanced function of the drug in cells, and potentially for
 the cell death.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Molecular-dynamics simulations were performed on the
 structures of the water channel aquaporin-1. The results provide
 an atomistic description of the interactions involved in the water
 permeation. Two major curvilinear pathways were identified. The
 simulations confirmed that the water selectivity is due primarily to
 the size-exclusion effect; i.e., maximally, one water molecule is
 allowed to pass through the narrow constriction in the aqueous pathway.
 Most importantly, in contrast to previous proposals, the
 hydrogen-bonding interactions of water molecules with the polar side
 chains of Asn-76 and Asn-192 on the strictly conserved Asn-Pro-Ala
 sequence motifs were found to be essential for maintaining the
 connectivity of water flow in the narrow constriction region. When
 Asn-76 and Asn-192 were replaced with near-isosteric hydrophobic
 residues in the simulation, the aqueous pathways were broken
 completely. Additionally, the size of the narrow constriction
 fluctuates significantly during the simulation, which frequently breaks
 the flow of water and, thus, breaks the single-file water network
 necessary for proton translocation. Moreover, mutations based on the
 simulation also have been suggested for further experimental
 investigation of the water-permeation mechanism of aquaporin-1.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By using techniques borrowed from statistical physics and neural
 networks, we determine the parameters, associated with a scoring
 function, that are chosen optimally to ensure complete success in
 threading tests in a training set of proteins. These parameters provide
 a quantitative measure of the propensities of amino acids to be buried
 or exposed and to be in a given secondary structure and are a good
 starting point for solving both the threading and design problems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Protein thermal dynamics was evaluated by neutron scattering for
 halophilic malate dehydrogenase from Haloarcula
 marismortui (HmMalDH) and BSA under different
 solvent conditions. As a measure of thermal stability in each
 case, loss of secondary structure temperatures were determined by CD.
 HmMalDH requires molar salt and has different stability
 behavior in H2O, D2O, and in NaCl and KCl
 solvents. BSA remains soluble in molar NaCl. The neutron experiments
 provided values of mean-squared atomic fluctuations at the 0.1 ns time
 scale. Effective force constants, characterizing the mean resilience of
 the protein structure, were calculated from the variation of the
 mean-squared fluctuation with temperature. For HmMalDH,
 resilience increased progressively with increasing stability, from
 molar NaCl in H2O, via molar KCl in D2O, to
 molar NaCl in D2O. Surprisingly, however, the opposite was
 observed for BSA; its resilience is higher in H2O where it
 is less stable than in D2O. These results confirmed the
 complexity of dynamics–stability relationships in different
 proteins. Softer dynamics for BSA in D2O showed that the
 higher thermostability is associated with entropic fluctuations. In the
 halophilic protein, higher stability is associated with increased
 resilience showing the dominance of enthalpic terms arising from
 bonded interactions. From previous data, it is suggested that these are
 associated with hydrated ion binding stabilizing the protein in the
 high-salt solvent.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The global configuration of individual, surface-adsorbed molecules
 of the giant muscle protein titin, labeled with rhodamine conjugates,
 was followed with confocal microscopy. Fluorescence-emission
 intensity was reduced because of self-quenching caused by the close
 spacing between rhodamine dye molecules that formed dimers. In the
 presence of chemical denaturants, fluorescence intensity increased,
 reversibly, up to 5-fold in a fast reaction; the kinetics were followed
 at the single-molecule level. We show that dimers formed in a
 concentrated rhodamine solution dissociate when exposed to chemical
 denaturants. Furthermore, titin denaturation, followed by means
 of tryptophan fluorescence, is dominated by a slow reaction.
 Therefore, the rapid fluorescence change of the single molecules
 reflects the direct action of the denaturants on rhodamine dimers
 rather than the unfolding/refolding of the protein. Upon acidic
 denaturation, which we have shown not to dissociate rhodamine dimers,
 fluorescence intensity change was minimal, suggesting that dimers
 persist because the unfolded molecule has contracted into a small
 volume. The highly contractile nature of the acid-unfolded protein
 molecule derives from a significant increase in chain flexibility. We
 discuss the potential implications this finding could have for the
 passive mechanical behavior of striated muscle.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Two symmetrically positioned redox active tyrosine residues
 are present in the photosystem II (PSII) reaction center. One of them,
 TyrZ, is oxidized in the ns–μs time scale by P680+ and
 reduced rapidly (μs to ms) by electrons from the Mn complex. The
 other one, TyrD, is stable in its oxidized form and seems to play no
 direct role in enzyme function. Here, we have studied electron donation
 from these tyrosines to the chlorophyll cation (P680+) in
 Mn-depleted PSII from plants and cyanobacteria. In particular, a mutant
 lacking TyrZ was used to investigate electron donation from TyrD. By
 using EPR and time-resolved absorption spectroscopy, we show that
 reduced TyrD is capable of donating an electron to P680+
 with t1/2 ≈ 190 ns at pH 8.5 in approximately half
 of the centers. This rate is ≈105 times faster than was
 previously thought and similar to the TyrZ donation rate in Mn-depleted
 wild-type PSII (pH 8.5). Some earlier arguments put forward to
 rationalize the supposedly slow electron donation from TyrD (compared
 with that from TyrZ) can be reassessed. At pH 6.5, TyrZ
 (t1/2 = 2–10 μs) donates much faster to
 P680+ than does TyrD (t1/2 > 150 μs).
 These different rates may reflect the different fates of the proton
 released from the respective tyrosines upon oxidation. The rapid rate
 of electron donation from TyrD requires at least partial localization
 of P680+ on the chlorophyll (PD2) that is
 located on the D2 side of the reaction center.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Odorants are transmitted by small hydrophobic molecules that cross
 the aqueous sensillar lymph surrounding the dendrites of the olfactory
 neurons to stimulate the olfactory receptors. In insects, the
 transport of pheromones, which are a special class of odorants, is
 mediated by pheromone-binding proteins (PBPs), which occur at high
 concentrations in the sensillar lymph. The PBP from the silk moth
 Bombyx mori (BmPBP) undergoes a pH-dependent
 conformational transition between the forms BmPBPA present
 at pH 4.5 and BmPBPB present at pH 6.5. Here, we describe
 the NMR structure of BmPBPA, which consists of a tightly
 packed arrangement of seven α-helices linked by well defined peptide
 segments and knitted together by three disulfide bridges. A scaffold of
 four α-helices that forms the ligand binding site in the crystal
 structure of a BmPBP–pheromone complex is preserved in
 BmPBPA. The C-terminal dodecapeptide segment, which is in
 an extended conformation and located on the protein surface in the
 pheromone complex, forms a regular helix, α7, which is
 located in the pheromone-binding site in the core of the unliganded
 BmPBPA. Because investigations by others indicate that the
 pH value near the membrane surface is reduced with respect to the bulk
 sensillar lymph, the pH-dependent conformational transition of BmPBP
 suggests a novel physiological mechanism of intramolecular regulation
 of protein function, with the formation of α7 triggering
 the release of the pheromone from BmPBP to the membrane-standing
 receptor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hearing relies on active filtering to achieve exquisite sensitivity
 and sharp frequency selectivity. In a quiet environment, the ears of
 many vertebrates become unstable and emit one to several tones. These
 spontaneous otoacoustic emissions, the most striking manifestation of
 the inner ear's active process, must result from self-sustained
 mechanical oscillations of aural constituents. The mechanoreceptive
 hair bundles of hair cells in the bullfrog's sacculus have the ability
 to amplify mechanical stimuli and oscillate spontaneously. By comparing
 a hair bundle's spontaneous oscillations with its response to small
 mechanical stimuli, we demonstrate a breakdown in a general principle
 of equilibrium thermodynamics, the fluctuation–dissipation theorem. We
 thus confirm that a hair bundle's spontaneous movements are produced
 by energy-consuming elements within the hair cell. To characterize the
 dynamical behavior of the active process, we introduce an effective
 temperature that, for each frequency component, quantifies a hair
 bundle's deviation from thermal equilibrium. The effective temperature
 diverges near the bundle's frequency of spontaneous oscillation. This
 behavior, which is not generic for active oscillators, can be
 accommodated by a simple model that characterizes quantitatively the
 fluctuations of the spontaneous movements as well as the hair bundle's
 linear response function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The auditory system's ability to interpret sounds over a
 wide range of amplitudes rests on the nonlinear responsiveness of the
 ear. Whether measured by basilar-membrane vibration, nerve-fiber
 activity, or perceived loudness, the ear is most sensitive to small
 signals and grows progressively less responsive as stimulation
 becomes stronger. Seeking a correlate of this behavior at the level of
 mechanoelectrical transduction, we examined the responses of hair
 bundles to direct mechanical stimulation. As reported by the motion of
 an attached glass fiber, an active hair bundle from the bullfrog's
 sacculus oscillates spontaneously. Sinusoidal movement of the fiber's
 base by as little as ±1 nm, corresponding to the application at the
 bundle's top of a force of ±0.3 pN, causes detectable phase-locking
 of the bundle's oscillations to the stimulus. Although entrainment
 increases as the stimulus grows, the amplitude of the hair-bundle
 movement does not rise until phase-locking is nearly complete. A bundle
 is most sensitive to stimulation at its frequency of spontaneous
 oscillation. Far from that frequency, the sensitivity of an active hair
 bundle resembles that of a passive bundle. Over most of its range, an
 active hair bundle's response grows as the one-third power of the
 stimulus amplitude; the bundle's sensitivity declines accordingly in
 proportion to the negative two-thirds power of the excitation. This
 scaling behavior, also found in the response of the mammalian basilar
 membrane to sound, signals the operation of an amplificatory
 process at the brink of an oscillatory instability, a Hopf bifurcation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent studies on the newly cloned red fluorescence
 protein DsRed from the Discosoma genus have shown its
 tremendous advantages: bright red fluorescence and high resistance
 against photobleaching. However, it has also become clear that the
 protein forms closely packed tetramers, and there is indication for
 incomplete protein maturation with unknown proportion of immature green
 species. We have applied single-molecule methodology to elucidate the
 nature of the fluorescence emission in the DsRed. Real-time
 fluorescence trajectories have been acquired with polarization
 sensitive detection. Our results indicate that energy transfer between
 identical monomers occurs efficiently with red emission arising equally
 likely from any of the chromophoric units. Photodissociation of one of
 the chromophores weakly quenches the emission of adjacent ones. Dual
 color excitation (at 488 and 568 nm) single-molecule microscopy has
 been performed to reveal the number and distribution of red vs. green
 species within each tetramer. We find that 86% of the DsRed contain at
 least one green species with a red-to-green ratio of 1.2–1.5. On the
 basis of our findings, oligomer suppression would not only be
 advantageous for protein fusion but will also increase the fluorescence
 emission of individual monomers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The photophysics and photochemistry taking place in
 the DsRed protein, a recently cloned red fluorescent protein from a
 coral of the Discosoma genus, are investigated here by
 means of ensemble and single-molecule time-resolved detection and
 spectroscopic measurements. Ensemble time-resolved data reveal that
 25% of the immature green chromophores are present in tetramers
 containing only this immature form. They are responsible for the weak
 fluorescence emitted at 500 nm. The remaining 75% of the immature
 green chromophores are involved in a fluorescence resonance energy
 transfer process to the red species. The combination of time-resolved
 detection with spectroscopy at the single-molecule level reveals, on
 543-nm excitation of individual DsRed tetramers, the existence of a
 photoconversion of the red chromophore emitting at 583 nm and decaying
 with a 3.2-ns time constant into a super red one emitting at 595 nm and
 for which the decay time constant ranges between 2.7 and 1.5 ns. The
 phenomenon is further corroborated at the ensemble level by the
 observation of the creation of a super red form and a blue absorbing
 species on irradiation with 532-nm pulsed light at high excitation
 power. Furthermore, single-molecule experiments suggest that a similar
 photoconversion process might occur in the immature green species on
 488-nm excitation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Proper cell division requires an accurate definition
 of the division plane. In bacteria, this plane is determined by a
 polymeric ring of the FtsZ protein. The site of Z ring assembly in turn
 is controlled by the Min system, which suppresses FtsZ polymerization
 at noncentral membrane sites. The Min proteins in Escherichia
 coli undergo a highly dynamic localization cycle, during which
 they oscillate between the membrane of both cell halves. By
 using computer simulations we show that Min protein dynamics can be
 described accurately by using the following assumptions:
 (i) the MinD ATPase self-assembles on the membrane and
 recruits both MinC, an inhibitor of Z ring formation, and MinE, a
 protein required for MinC/MinD oscillation, (ii) a
 local accumulation of MinE is generated by a pattern formation reaction
 that is based on local self-enhancement and a long range antagonistic
 effect, and (iii) it displaces MinD from the membrane
 causing its own local destabilization and shift toward higher MinD
 concentrations. This local destabilization results in a wave of
 high MinE concentration traveling from the cell center to a pole, where
 it disappears. MinD reassembles on the membrane of the other cell half
 and attracts a new accumulation of MinE, causing a wave-like
 disassembly of MinD again. The result is a pole-to-pole oscillation of
 MinC/D. On time average, MinC concentration is highest at the poles,
 forcing FtsZ assembly to the center. The mechanism is self-organizing
 and does not require any other hypothetical topological determinant.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Alterations in peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) gene expression
 are associated with a host of heritable demyelinating peripheral
 neuropathies, yet the function of the protein remains unknown.
 PMP22 expression is highest in myelinating Schwann cells of peripheral
 nerves; however, significant levels of PMP22 mRNAs can be detected in a
 variety of non-neural tissue, including epithelia. To date, PMP22
 protein expression and localization in non-neural tissues have not been
 studied in detail. In adult rat liver and intestine, and cultured
 epithelial cells, we detected PMP22-like immunoreactivity associated
 with markers of the tight junctional complex, including zonula
 occludens 1 (ZO-1) and occludin. Upon disruption of intercellular
 contacts, PMP22 was internalized into vesicles that were immunoreactive
 for both anti-occludin and anti-PMP22 antibodies. Nonionic detergent
 extraction of cultured epithelial cells did not solubilize PMP22, as
 the majority of the protein remained in the detergent insoluble
 fraction, as did ZO-1 and occludin. We also observed the targeting of
 exogenous myc-tagged PMP22 to apical cell junctions in polarized
 epithelia and to anti-ZO-1 antibody immunoreactive cell contacts of L
 fibroblasts. These studies support a role for PMP22 at intercellular
 junctions of epithelia and may indicate a similar function in
 myelinating Schwann cells. Furthermore, our findings could provide an
 explanation for certain phenotypes of PMP22 neuropathy mice that cannot
 be accounted for by dysmyelination.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Based principally on the cancer incidence found in survivors
 of the atomic bombs dropped in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the
 International Commission on Radiation Protection (ICRP) and the United
 States National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP)
 have recommended that estimates of cancer risk for low dose exposure be
 extrapolated from higher doses by using a linear, no-threshold model.
 This recommendation is based on the dogma that the DNA of the nucleus
 is the main target for radiation-induced genotoxicity and, as fewer
 cells are directly damaged, the deleterious effects of radiation
 proportionally decline. In this paper, we used a precision microbeam to
 target an exact fraction (either 100% or ≤20%) of the cells in a
 confluent population and irradiated their nuclei with exactly one α
 particle each. We found that the frequencies of induced mutations and
 chromosomal changes in populations where some known fractions of nuclei
 were hit are consistent with non-hit cells contributing significantly
 to the response. In fact, irradiation of 10% of a confluent mammalian
 cell population with a single α particle per cell results in a mutant
 yield similar to that observed when all of the cells in the population
 are irradiated. This effect was significantly eliminated in cells
 pretreated with a 1 mM dose of octanol, which inhibits gap
 junction-mediated intercellular communication, or in cells carrying a
 dominant negative connexin 43 vector. The data imply that the relevant
 target for radiation mutagenesis is larger than an individual cell and
 suggest a need to reconsider the validity of the linear extrapolation
 in making risk estimates for low dose, high
 linear-energy-transfer (LET) radiation exposure.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Basement membranes are important for epithelial
 differentiation, cell survival, and normal and metastatic cell
 migration. Much is known about their breakdown and remodeling, yet
 their positive regulation is poorly understood. Our previous analysis
 of a fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor mutation raised the
 possibility that protein kinase B (Akt/PKB) activated by FGF is
 connected to the expression of certain laminin and type IV collagen
 isotypes. Here we test this hypothesis and demonstrate that
 constitutively active Akt/PKB, an important downstream element of
 phosphoinositide 3′-kinase signaling, induces the synthesis of
 laminin-1 and collagen IV isotypes and causes their translocation to
 the basement membrane. By using promoter–reporter constructs, we show
 that constitutively active phosphoinositide 3′-kinase-p110 or
 Akt/PKB activates, whereas dominant negative Akt/PKB inhibits,
 transcription of laminin β1 and collagen IV α1 in differentiating
 C2 myoblast- and insulin-induced Chinese hamster ovary–T cell
 cultures. These results suggest that Akt/PKB activated by receptor
 tyrosine kinases is involved in the positive regulation of basement
 membrane formation. The possible role of Akt/PKB-induced laminin and
 collagen IV synthesis in cell survival and differentiation will be
 discussed.
DOC DONE!Abstract
gp78, also known as the tumor autocrine motility factor
 receptor, is a transmembrane protein whose expression is
 correlated with tumor metastasis. We establish that gp78 is a RING
 finger-dependent ubiquitin protein ligase (E3) of the endoplasmic
 reticulum (ER). Consistent with this, gp78 specifically recruits
 MmUBC7, a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) implicated in ER-associated
 degradation (ERAD), through a region distinct from the RING finger.
 gp78 can target itself for proteasomal degradation in a RING finger-
 and MmUBC7-dependent manner. Importantly, gp78 can also mediate
 degradation of CD3-δ, a well-characterized ERAD substrate. In
 contrast, gp78 lacking an intact RING finger or its multiple
 membrane-spanning domains stabilizes CD3-δ. gp78 has thus been
 found to be an example of a mammalian cellular E3 intrinsic to
 the ER, suggesting a potential link between ubiquitylation,
 ERAD, and metastasis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In eukaryotes, double-stranded (ds) RNA induces sequence-specific
 inhibition of gene expression, referred to as RNA interference
 (RNAi). In invertebrates, RNAi can be triggered effectively by either
 long dsRNAs or 21- to 23-nt-long short interfering (si) duplex RNAs,
 acting as effectors of RNAi. siRNAs recently have been shown to act as
 potent inducers of RNAi in cultured mammalian cells. However, studies
 of RNAi activated by long dsRNA are impeded by its nonspecific effects,
 mediated by dsRNA-dependent protein kinase PKR and RNase L. Here, we
 report that the RNAi response can be induced effectively by long dsRNA
 in nondifferentiated mouse cells grown in culture. Transfection of
 dsRNA into embryonal carcinoma (EC) P19 and F9 cells results in a
 sequence-specific decrease in the level of proteins expressed from
 either exogenous or endogenous genes. dsRNA-mediated
 inhibition of the reporter gene also occurs in mouse embryonic stem
 cells. The RNAi effect is mediated by siRNAs, which are generated by
 cleavage of dsRNA by the RNaseIII-like enzyme, Dicer. We demonstrate
 that extracts prepared from EC cells catalyze processing of dsRNA into
 ≈23-nt fragments and that Dicer localizes to the cytoplasm of EC and
 HeLa cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We purified microtubules from a mammalian mitotic extract
 and obtained an amino acid sequence from each microtubule-associated
 protein by using mass spectrometry. Most of these proteins are known
 spindle-associated components with essential functional roles in
 spindle organization. We generated antibodies against a protein
 identified in this collection and refer to it as astrin because of its
 association with astral microtubule arrays assembled in
 vitro. Astrin is ≈134 kDa, and except for a large predicted
 coiled-coil domain in its C-terminal region it lacks any known
 functional motifs. Astrin associates with spindle microtubules as early
 as prophase where it concentrates at spindle poles. It localizes
 throughout the spindle in metaphase and anaphase and associates with
 midzone microtubules in anaphase and telophase. Astrin also localizes
 to kinetochores but only on those chromosomes that have congressed.
 Deletion analysis indicates that astrin's primary spindle-targeting
 domain is at the C terminus, although a secondary domain in the N
 terminus can target some of the protein to spindle poles. Thus, we have
 generated a comprehensive list of major mitotic microtubule-associated
 proteins, among which is astrin, a nonmotor spindle protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Muscle wasting is a debilitating consequence of fasting,
 inactivity, cancer, and other systemic diseases that results primarily
 from accelerated protein degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome
 pathway. To identify key factors in this process, we have used cDNA
 microarrays to compare normal and atrophying muscles and found a
 unique gene fragment that is induced more than ninefold in
 muscles of fasted mice. We cloned this gene, which is expressed
 specifically in striated muscles. Because this mRNA also markedly
 increases in muscles atrophying because of diabetes, cancer, and renal
 failure, we named it atrogin-1. It contains a functional F-box domain
 that binds to Skp1 and thereby to Roc1 and Cul1, the other components
 of SCF-type Ub-protein ligases (E3s), as well as a nuclear localization
 sequence and PDZ-binding domain. On fasting, atrogin-1 mRNA levels
 increase specifically in skeletal muscle and before atrophy occurs.
 Atrogin-1 is one of the few examples of an F-box protein or Ub-protein
 ligase (E3) expressed in a tissue-specific manner and appears to be a
 critical component in the enhanced proteolysis leading to muscle
 atrophy in diverse diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Conjugation in Blepharisma japonicum is induced by
 interaction between complementary mating-types I and II, which excrete
 blepharmone (gamone 1) and blepharismone (gamone 2), respectively.
 Gamone 1 transforms type II cells such that they can unite, and gamone
 2 similarly transforms type I cells. Moreover, each gamone promotes the
 production of the other gamone. Gamone 2 has been identified as
 calcium-3-(2′-formylamino-5′-hydroxy-benzoyl) lactate and has been
 synthesized chemically. Gamone 1 was isolated and characterized as a
 glycoprotein of 20–30 kDa containing 175 amino acids and 6 sugars.
 However, the amino acid sequence and arrangement of sugars in this
 gamone are still unknown. To determine partial amino acid sequences of
 gamone 1, we established a method of isolation based on the finding
 that this glycoprotein can be concentrated by a Con A affinity column.
 Gamone 1 is extremely unstable and loses its biological activity once
 adsorbed to any of the columns that we tested. By using a Con A
 affinity column and native PAGE, we detected a 30-kDa protein
 corresponding to gamone 1 activity and determined the partial amino
 acid sequences of the four peptides. To isolate gamone 1 cDNA, we
 isolated mRNA from mating-type I cells stimulated by synthetic gamone 2
 and then performed rapid amplification of cDNA ends procedures by using
 gene-specific primers and cloned cDNA of gamone 1. The cDNA sequence
 contains an ORF of 305 amino acids and codes a possibly novel protein.
 We also estimated the arrangement of sugars by comparing the affinity
 to various lectin columns.
DOC DONE!Abstract
LMO4 belongs to a family of LIM-only transcriptional
 regulators, the first two members of which are oncoproteins in
 acute T cell leukemia. We have explored a role for LMO4, initially
 described as a human breast tumor autoantigen, in developing mammary
 epithelium and breast oncogenesis. Lmo4 was expressed
 predominantly in the lobuloalveoli of the mammary gland during
 pregnancy. Consistent with a role in proliferation, forced expression
 of this gene inhibited differentiation of mammary epithelial cells.
 Overexpression of LMO4 mRNA was observed in 5 of 10
 human breast cancer cell lines. Moreover, in situ
 hybridization analysis of 177 primary invasive breast carcinomas
 revealed overexpression of LMO4 in 56% of
 specimens. Immunohistochemistry confirmed overexpression in a high
 percentage (62%) of tumors. These studies imply a role for
 LMO4 in maintaining proliferation of mammary epithelium
 and suggest that deregulation of this gene may contribute to breast
 tumorigenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although the growth factors that regulate
 megakaryocytopoiesis are well known, the molecular determinants of
 platelet formation from mature megakaryocytes remain poorly understood.
 Morphological changes in megakaryocytes associated with platelet
 formation and removal of senescent megakaryocytes are suggestive of an
 apoptotic process. Previously, we have established that nitric
 oxide (NO) can induce apoptosis in megakaryocytoid cell lines.
 To determine whether there is an association between NO-induced
 apoptosis and platelet production, we exposed Meg-01 cells to
 S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) with or without
 thrombopoeitin (TPO) pretreatment and used flow cytometry and electron
 microscopy to assess platelet-sized particle formation. Meg-01 cells
 treated with TPO alone produced few platelet-sized particles (<3% of
 total counts), whereas treatment with GSNO alone produced a significant
 percentage of platelet-sized particles (22 ± 4% of total
 counts); when combined with TPO pretreatment, however, GSNO led to a
 marked increase in platelet-sized particle production (48 ± 3%
 of total counts). Electron microscopy confirmed that Meg-01 cells
 treated with TPO and GSNO yielded platelet-sized particles with
 morphological features specific for platelet forms. The platelet-sized
 particle population appears to be functional, because addition of
 calcium, fibrinogen, and thrombin receptor-activating peptide led to
 aggregation. These results demonstrate that NO facilitates platelet
 production, thereby establishing the essential role of NO in
 megakaryocyte development and thrombopoiesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between
 fluorophores attached to single proteins provides a tool to study the
 conformation of proteins in solution and in cell culture. As a protein
 unfolds, nanometer-scale increases in distance between donor and
 acceptor fluorophores cause decreases in FRET. Here we demonstrate
 the application of FRET to imaging coexisting conformations of
 fibronectin (Fn) in cell culture. Fn is a flexible 440-kDa
 extracellular matrix protein, with functional sites that are regulated
 by unfolding events. Fn was labeled with multiple donor and acceptor
 fluorophores such that intramolecular FRET could be used to distinguish
 a range of Fn conformations. The sensitivity of FRET to unfolding was
 tested by progressively denaturing labeled Fn using guanidium chloride.
 To investigate Fn conformation changes during cell binding and matrix
 assembly, we added labeled Fn to the culture medium of NIH 3T3
 fibroblasts. Coexisting conformations of Fn were visualized using
 fluorescence microscopy, and spectra from specific features were
 measured with an attached spectrometer. Using FRET as an indicator of
 Fn conformation, Fn diffusely bound to cells was in a compact state,
 whereas Fn in matrix fibrils was highly extended. Matrix fibrils
 exhibited a range of FRET that suggested some degree of unfolding of
 Fn's globular modules. Fn in cell-associated clusters that preceded
 fibril formation appeared more extended than diffuse cell-bound Fn but
 less extended than fibrillar Fn, suggesting that Fn undergoes extension
 after cell binding and before polymerization. FRET thus provides an
 approach to gain insight into the integrin-mediated pathway of Fn
 fibrillogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Asymmetric divisions with two different division orientations
 follow different polarity cues for the asymmetric segregation of
 determinants in the sensory organ precursor (SOP) lineage. The
 first asymmetric division depends on frizzled function
 and has the mitotic spindle of the pI cell in the epithelium
 oriented along the anterior–posterior axis, giving rise to pIIa and
 pIIb, which divide in different orientations. Only the pIIb division
 resembles neuroblast division in daughter-size asymmetry, spindle
 orientation along the apical–basal axis, basal Numb localization, and
 requirement for inscuteable function. Because the PDZ
 domain protein Bazooka is required for spindle orientation and basal
 localization of Numb in neuroblasts, we wondered whether Bazooka plays
 a similar role in the pIIb in the SOP lineage. Surprisingly, Bazooka
 controls asymmetric localization of the Numb-anchoring protein Pon, but
 not spindle orientation, in pI and all subsequent divisions. Bazooka
 also regulates cell proliferation in the SOP lineage; loss of
 bazooka function results in supernumerary cell divisions
 and apoptotic cell death.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The par genes, identified by their role in the
 establishment of anterior-posterior polarity in the
 Caenorhabditis elegans zygote,
 subsequently have been shown to regulate cellular polarity in diverse
 cell types by means of an evolutionarily conserved protein complex
 including PAR-3, PAR-6, and atypical protein kinase C (aPKC).
 The Drosophila homologs of par-1, par-3 (bazooka,
 baz), par-6 (DmPar-6), and pkc-3
 (Drosophila aPKC, DaPKC) each are known to play
 conserved roles in the generation of cell polarity in the germ line as
 well as in epithelial and neural precursor cells within the embryo. In
 light of this functional conservation, we examined the potential role
 of baz and DaPKC in the regulation of
 oocyte polarity. Our analyses reveal germ-line autonomous roles for
 baz and DaPKC in the establishment of
 initial anterior-posterior polarity within germ-line cysts and
 maintenance of oocyte cell fate. Germ-line clonal analyses indicate
 both proteins are essential for two key aspects of oocyte
 determination: the posterior translocation of oocyte specification
 factors and the posterior establishment of the microtubule organizing
 center within the presumptive oocyte. We demonstrate BAZ and DaPKC
 colocalize to belt-like structures between germarial cyst cells.
 However, in contrast to their regulatory relationship in the
 Drosophila and C. elegans embryos, these
 proteins are not mutually dependent for their germ-line localization,
 nor is either protein specifically required for PAR-1 localization to
 the fusome. Therefore, whereas BAZ, DaPKC, and PAR-1 are functionally
 conserved in establishing oocyte polarity, the regulatory relationships
 among these genes are not well conserved, indicating these molecules
 function differently in different cellular contexts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations in the human genes encoding hepatocyte nuclear factors
 (HNF) 1α, 1β, 4α, and IPF1(PDX1/IDX1/STF1) result in
 pancreatic β cell dysfunction and diabetes mellitus. In
 hepatocytes, hnf4α controls the transcription of
 hnf1α, suggesting that this same interaction may
 operate in β cells and thus account for the common diabetic
 phenotype. We show that, in pancreatic islet and exocrine cells,
 hnf4α expression unexpectedly depends on
 hnf1α. This effect is tissue-specific and mediated
 through direct occupation by hnf1α of an alternate promoter located
 45.6 kb from the previously characterized hnf4α
 promoter. Hnf1α also exerts direct control of
 pancreatic-specific expression of hnf4γ and
 hnf3γ. Hnf1α dependence of
 hnf4α, hnf4γ, hnf3γ,
 and two previously characterized distal targets (glut2
 and pklr) is established only after differentiated cells
 arise during pancreatic embryonic development. These studies define an
 unexpected hierarchical regulatory relationship between two genes
 involved in human monogenic diabetes in the cells, which are relevant
 to its pathophysiology. Furthermore, they indicate that
 hnf1α is an essential component of a transcription
 factor circuit whose role may be to maintain differentiated functions
 of pancreatic cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sequencing of the Drosophila genome has revealed
 that there are “silent” homologues of many important
 genes—family members that were not detected by classic genetic
 approaches. Why have so many homologues been conserved during
 evolution? Perhaps each one has a different but important function in
 every system. Perhaps each one works independently in a different part
 of the body. Or, perhaps some are redundant. Here, we take one well
 known gene family and analyze how the individual members contribute to
 the making of one system, the tracheae. There are seven
 DWnt genes in the Drosophila
 genome, including wingless (wg). The
 wg gene helps to pattern the developing trachea but is
 not responsible for all Wnt functions there. We test each one of the
 seven DWnts in several ways and find evidence that
 wg and DWnt2 can function in the
 developing trachea: when both genes are removed together, the phenotype
 is identical or very similar to that observed when the Wnt
 pathway is shut down. DWnt2 is expressed near the
 tracheal cells in the embryo in a different pattern to
 wg but is also transduced through the canonical
 Wnt pathway. We find that the seven DWnt
 genes vary in their effectiveness in specific tissues, such as the
 tracheae, and, moreover, the epidermis and the tracheae respond to
 DWnt2 and Wg differently. We suggest that the main advantage of
 retaining a number of similar genes is that it allows more subtle forms
 of control and more flexibility during evolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Body size is one of the most significant features of
 animals. Not only is it correlated with many life history and
 ecological traits, but it also may influence the abundance of species
 within, and their membership of, assemblages. Understanding of the
 latter processes is frequently based on a comparison of model outcomes
 with the frequency of species of different body mass within natural
 assemblages. Consequently, the form of these frequency distributions
 has been much debated. Empirical data usually concern taxonomically
 delineated groups, such as classes or orders, whereas the processes
 ultimately apply to whole assemblages. Here, we report the most
 complete animal species–body size distribution to date for those
 free-living species breeding on sub-Antarctic Marion Island and using
 the terrestrial environment. Extending over 15 orders of magnitude of
 variation in body mass, this distribution is bimodal, with separate
 peaks for invertebrates and vertebrates. Under logarithmic
 transformation, the distribution for vertebrates is not significantly
 skewed, whereas that for invertebrates is right-skewed. Contrary to
 expectation based on a fractal or pseudofractal environmental
 structure, the decline in the richness of species at the smallest body
 sizes is a real effect and not a consequence of unrecorded species or
 of species introductions to the island. The scarcity of small species
 might well be a consequence of their large geographic ranges.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transposable elements inhabiting eukaryotic genomes are generally
 regarded either as selfish DNA, which is selectively neutral to the
 host organism, or as parasitic DNA, deleterious to the host. Thus far,
 the only agreed-upon example of beneficial eukaryotic transposons is
 provided by Drosophila telomere-associated
 retrotransposons, which transpose directly to the chromosome
 ends and thereby protect them from degradation. This article reports
 the transposon content of the genome of the protozoan Giardia
 lamblia, one of the earliest-branching eukaryotes. A total of
 three non-long terminal repeat retrotransposon families have been
 identified, two of which are located at the ends of chromosomes, and
 the third one contains exclusively dead copies with multiple internal
 deletions, nucleotide substitutions, and frame shifts. No other reverse
 transcriptase- or transposase-related sequences were found. Thus, the
 entire genome of this protozoan, which is not known to reproduce
 sexually, contains only retrotransposons that are either confined to
 telomeric regions and possibly beneficial, or inactivated and
 completely nonfunctional.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The amount of noncoding genomic DNA sequence that aligns
 between human and mouse varies substantially in different regions of
 their genomes, and the amount of repetitive DNA also varies. In this
 report, we show that divergence in noncoding nonrepetitive DNA is
 strongly correlated with the amount of repetitive DNA in a
 region. We investigated aligned DNA in four large genomic
 regions with finished human sequence and almost or completely finished
 mouse sequence. These regions, totaling 5.89 Mb of DNA, are on
 different chromosomes and vary in their base composition. An analysis
 based on sliding windows of 10 kb shows that the fraction of aligned
 noncoding nonrepetitive DNA and the fraction of repetitive DNA are
 negatively correlated, both at the level of an entire region and
 locally within it. This conclusion is strongly supported by a
 randomization study, in which repetitive elements are removed and
 randomly relocated along the sequences. Thus, regions of noncoding
 genomic DNA that accumulated fewer point mutations since the
 primate–rodent divergence also suffered fewer retrotransposition
 events. These results indicate that some regions of the genome are more
 “flexible” over the time scale of mammalian evolution, being able
 to accommodate many point mutations and insertions, whereas other
 regions are more “rigid” and accumulate fewer changes. Stronger
 conservation is generally interpreted as indicating more extensive or
 more important function. The evidence presented here of correlated
 variation in the rates of different evolutionary processes across
 noncoding DNA must be considered in assessing such conservation for
 evidence of selection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To date, all altered patterns of seasonal interactions observed in
 insects, birds, amphibians, and plants associated with global warming
 during the latter half of the 20th century are explicable as variable
 expressions of plastic phenotypes. Over the last 30 years, the
 genetically controlled photoperiodic response of the pitcher-plant
 mosquito, Wyeomyia smithii, has shifted toward shorter,
 more southern daylengths as growing seasons have become longer. This
 shift is detectable over a time interval as short as 5 years. Faster
 evolutionary response has occurred in northern populations where
 selection is stronger and genetic variation is greater than in southern
 populations. W. smithii represents an example of
 actual genetic differentiation of a seasonality trait that is
 consistent with an adaptive evolutionary response to recent global
 warming.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Changes in protein function can lead to changes in the selection
 acting on specific residues. This can often be detected as
 evolutionary rate changes at the sites in question. A
 maximum-likelihood method for detecting evolutionary rate shifts at
 specific protein positions is presented. The method determines
 significance values of the rate differences to give a sound statistical
 foundation for the conclusions drawn from the analyses. A statistical
 test for detecting slowly evolving sites is also described. The methods
 are applied to a set of Myc proteins for the identification of both
 conserved sites and those with changing evolutionary rates. Those
 positions with conserved and changing rates are related to the
 structures and functions of their proteins. The results are compared
 with an earlier Bayesian method, thereby highlighting the advantages of
 the new likelihood ratio tests.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Among local faunas, the maximum body size and taxonomic affiliation
 of the top terrestrial vertebrate vary greatly. Does this variation
 reflect how food requirements differ between trophic levels (herbivores
 vs. carnivores) and with taxonomic affiliation (mammals and birds vs.
 reptiles)? We gathered data on the body size and food
 requirements of the top terrestrial herbivores and carnivores, over the
 past 65,000 years, from oceanic islands and continents. The body mass
 of the top species was found to increase with increasing land area,
 with a slope similar to that of the relation between body mass and home
 range area, suggesting that maximum body size is determined by the
 number of home ranges that can fit into a given land area. For a given
 land area, the body size of the top species decreased in the sequence:
 ectothermic herbivore > endothermic herbivore > ectothermic
 carnivore > endothermic carnivore. When we converted body mass to
 food requirements, the food consumption of a top herbivore was about 8
 times that of a top carnivore, in accord with the factor expected from
 the trophic pyramid. Although top ectotherms were heavier than top
 endotherms at a given trophic level, lower metabolic rates per gram of
 body mass in ectotherms resulted in endotherms and ectotherms having
 the same food consumption. These patterns explain the size of the
 largest-ever extinct mammal, but the size of the largest dinosaurs
 exceeds that predicted from land areas and remains unexplained.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Meiotic recombination in the yeast Saccharomyces
 cerevisiae is initiated by programmed double-strand breaks at
 selected sites throughout the genome (hotspots). α-Hotspots
 are binding sites for transcription factors. Double-strand breaks at
 α-hotspots require binding of transcription factor but not high
 levels of transcription per se. We show that modulating
 the production of the transcription factor Gcn4p by deletion or
 constitutive transcription alters the rate of gene conversion
 and crossing-over at HIS4. In addition, we show that
 alterations in the metabolic state of the cell change the frequency of
 gene conversion at HIS4 in a Gcn4p-dependent manner. We
 suggest that recombination data obtained from experiments using amino
 acid and other biosynthetic genes for gene disruptions and/or as
 genetic markers should be treated cautiously. The demonstration that
 Gcn4p affects transcription of more than 500 genes and that the
 recombinationally “hottest” ORFs tend to be Gcn4p-regulated
 suggest that the metabolic state of a cell, especially with respect to
 nitrogen metabolism, is a determinant of recombination rates.
 This observation suggests that the effects of metabolic state
 may be global and may account for some as yet unexplained features of
 recombination in higher organisms, such as the differences in map
 length between the sexes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Microbial populations depend on genetic variation to
 respond to novel environmental challenges. Plant pathogens are
 notorious for their ability to overcome pesticides and host resistance
 genes as a result of genetic changes. We report here that in particular
 hybrid strains of Phytophthora sojae, an oomycete
 pathogen of soybean, high frequency mitotic gene conversion rapidly
 converts heterozygous loci to homozygosity, resulting in heterokaryons
 containing highly diverse populations of diploid nuclei. In hybrids
 involving strain P7076, conversion rates of up to 3 ×
 10−2 per locus per nucleus per generation were observed.
 In other hybrids, rates were of the order of 5 ×
 10−5. Independent gene conversion was observed within a
 selected linkage group including loci as close as 0.7 kb apart and in
 unlinked markers throughout the genome. Gene conversions continued
 throughout vegetative growth and were stimulated by further sexual
 reproduction. At many loci, conversion showed extreme disparity, with
 one allele always being lost, suggesting that conversion was initiated
 by allele-specific double-stranded breaks. Pedigree analysis indicated
 that individual loci undergo multiple independent conversions within
 the nuclei of a vegetative clone and that conversion may be preceded by
 a heritable “activation” state.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Failure of one parent's chromosomes to organize nucleoli in an
 interspecific hybrid is an epigenetic phenomenon known as nucleolar
 dominance. Selective gene silencing on a scale of millions of bp
 is known to be involved, but the full extent to which nucleolus
 organizer region (NOR)-bearing chromosomes are inactivated beyond the
 NORs is unknown. Aided by genome sequence data for Arabidopsis
 thaliana, we have mapped the extent of nucleolar
 dominance-induced silencing in Arabidopsis suecica, the
 allotetraploid hybrid of A. thaliana and
 Arabidopsis arenosa. Using a sensitive reverse
 transcription PCR assay, we show that the four A.
 thaliana NORs, each ≈4 Mbp in size, are ≈99.5% silenced in
 A. suecica vegetative leaves, whereas the NORs inherited
 from A. arenosa remain fully active. The two A.
 thaliana NORs, NOR2 and NOR4,
 abut the telomeres on chromosomes 2 and 4, thus there are no genes
 distal to the NORs. The three protein-coding genes nearest
 NOR4 on its centromere-proximal side, the closest of
 which is only 3.1 kb from rRNA gene sequences, are shown to be
 transcribed in the hybrid despite the silencing of the adjacent
 ≈4-Mbp NOR. These data argue against hypotheses in which NOR
 inactivation is attributed to the spread of silencing from adjacent
 chromosomal regions, but favor models in which NORs or rRNA genes are
 the targets of regulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Clonogenic multipotent mouse hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs)
 and progenitor cells are contained within the c-kit+ (K)
 lineage−/lo (L) Sca-1+ (S) population of
 hematopoietic cells; long-term (LT) and short-term (ST) HSCs are
 Thy-1.1lo. c-kit is a member of the receptor tyrosine
 kinase family, a class of receptors that are important in the
 proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells. To establish
 whether the Flk-2/Flt3 receptor tyrosine kinase was expressed on the
 most primitive LT-HSCs, we sorted highly purified multipotent stem and
 progenitor cells on the basis of Flk-2 surface expression and used them
 in competitive reconstitution assays. Low numbers of
 Flk-2− HSCs gave rise to long-term multilineage
 reconstitution in the majority of recipients, whereas the transfer of
 Flk-2+ multipotent cells resulted in mostly short-term
 multilineage reconstitution. The KLS subset of adult mouse bone marrow
 was analyzed for Flk-2 and Thy-1.1 expression. Three
 phenotypically and functionally distinct populations were isolated:
 Thylo Flk-2− (LT-HSCs), Thylo
 Flk-2+ (ST-HSCs), and Thy− Flk-2+
 multipotent progenitors. The loss of Thy-1.1 and gain of Flk-2
 expression marks the loss of self-renewal in HSC maturation. The
 addition of Flk-2 antibody to the lineage mix allows direct isolation
 of LT-HSC from adult bone marrow as c-kit+
 lin− Sca-1+ Flk-2− from many
 strains of mice. Fetal liver HSCs are contained within
 Flk-2− and Flk-2+ KTLS cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity is determined by a balance of
 positive and negative signals. Negative signals are transmitted
 by NK inhibitory receptors (killer immunoglobulin-like receptors, KIR)
 at the site of membrane apposition between an NK cell and a target
 cell, where inhibitory receptors become clustered with class I MHC
 ligands in an organized structure known as an inhibitory NK immune
 synapse. Immune synapse formation in NK cells is poorly understood.
 Because signaling by NK inhibitory receptors could be involved in this
 process, the human NK tumor line YTS was transfected with
 signal-competent and signal-incompetent KIR2DL1. The latter were
 generated by truncating the KIR2DL1 cytoplasmic tail or by introducing
 mutations in the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motifs. The
 KIR2DL1 mutants retained their ability to cluster class I MHC ligands
 on NK cell interaction with appropriate target cells. Therefore,
 receptor–ligand clustering at the inhibitory NK immune synapse occurs
 independently of KIR2DL1 signal transduction. However, parallel
 examination of NK cell membrane lipid rafts revealed that KIR2DL1
 signaling is critical for blocking lipid raft polarization and NK cell
 cytotoxicity. Moreover, raft polarization was inhibited by reagents
 that disrupt microtubules and actin filaments, whereas synapse
 formation was not. Thus, NK lipid raft polarization and inhibitory NK
 immune synapse formation occur by fundamentally distinct mechanisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Isotype switching involves a region-specific, nonhomologous
 recombinational deletion that has been suggested to occur by
 nonhomologous joining of broken DNA ends. Here, we find
 increased donor/acceptor homology at switch junctions from
 PMS2-deficient mice and propose that class switching can occur by
 microhomology-mediated end-joining. Interestingly, although isotype
 switching and somatic hypermutation show many parallels, we confirm
 that PMS2 deficiency has no major effect on the pattern of nucleotide
 substitutions generated during somatic hypermutation. This finding is
 in contrast to MSH2 deficiency. With MSH2, the altered pattern of
 switch recombination and hypermutation suggests parallels in the
 mechanics of the two processes, whereas the fact that PMS2 deficiency
 affects only switch recombination may reflect differences in the
 pathways of break resolution.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IL-15 is a critical cytokine for the maintenance of
 memory-phenotype CD8 cells in mice. Here, we investigated the
 role of IL-15 in the neurological disease termed human T cell
 lymphotropic virus I-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic
 paraparesis (HAM/TSP). The high number of viral-specific CD8
 cells in these patients is associated with inflammatory responses in
 the central nervous system. Because IL-15 is overexpressed in these
 patients, we asked whether IL-15 contributes to the persistence of
 human T cell lymphotropic virus I viral-specific CD8 cells. Using
 ex vivo cultures of HAM/TSP peripheral blood
 mononuclear cells, we demonstrated that in the majority of
 patients examined here blocking IL-15 action resulted in a decrease in
 the number of viral-specific CD8 cells. This decrease was caused by
 both inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis in
 these cells. The data indicate that IL-15 plays a major role in the
 maintenance of viral-specific CD8 cells in HAM/TSP.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Manipulations capable of breaking host tolerance to induce
 tissue-specific T cell-mediated inflammation are of central importance
 to tumor immunotherapy and our understanding of autoimmunity. We
 demonstrate that androgen ablative therapy induces profuse T cell
 infiltration of benign glands and tumors in human prostates. T cell
 infiltration is readily apparent after 7–28 days of therapy and is
 comprised predominantly of a response by CD4+ T cells and comparatively
 fewer CD8+ T cells. Also, T cells within the treated prostate exhibit
 restricted TCR Vβ gene usage, consistent with a local oligoclonal
 response. Recruitment/activation of antigen-presenting cells in
 treated prostate tissues may contribute to local T cell activation. The
 induction of T cell infiltration in prostate tissues treated with
 androgen ablation may have implications for the immunotherapeutic
 treatment of prostate cancer as well as other hormone-sensitive
 malignancies, including breast carcinoma.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recognition of altered self-antigens in tumor cells by
 lymphocytes forms the basis for antitumor immune responses. The
 effector cells in most experimental tumor systems are CD8+
 T cells that recognize MHC class I binding peptides derived from
 molecules with altered expression in tumor cells. Although the need for
 CD4+ helper T cells in regulating CD8+ T cells
 has been documented, their target epitopes and functional impact in
 antitumor responses remain unclear. We examined whether broadly
 expressed wild-type molecules in murine tumor cells eliciting humoral
 immunity contributed to the generation of CD8+ T
 cells and protective antitumor immune responses to unrelated
 tumor-specific antigens [mutated ERK2 (mERK2) and
 c-erbB2/HER/neu (HER2)]. The
 immunogenic wild-type molecules, presumably dependent on recognition by
 CD4+ helper T cells, were defined by serological analysis
 of recombinant cDNA expression libraries (SEREX) using tumor-derived
 λ phage libraries screened with IgG antibodies of hosts bearing
 transplanted 3-methylchoranthrene-induced tumors. Coimmunization
 of mice with plasmids encoding SEREX-defined murine wild-type molecules
 and mERK2 or HER2 led to a profound increase in CD8+ T
 cells specific for mERK2 or HER2 peptides. This heightened response
 depended on CD4+ T cells and copresentation of
 SEREX-defined molecules and CD8+ T cell epitopes. In tumor
 protection assays, immunization with SEREX-defined wild-type molecules
 and mERK2 resulted in an inhibition of pulmonary metastasis, which was
 not achieved by immunization with mERK2 alone.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To assess the contribution of the alternative pathway in complement
 activation and host defense and its possible role in the regulation of
 systemic energy balance in vivo, factor D-deficient mice
 were generated by gene targeting. The mutant mice have no
 apparent abnormality in development and their body weights are similar
 to those of factor D-sufficient littermates. Complement activation
 could not be initiated in the serum of deficient mice by the
 alternative pathway activators rabbit erythrocytes and zymosan.
 Surprisingly, injection of cobra venom factor (CVF) caused a profound
 and reproducible reduction in serum C3 levels, whereas, as expected,
 there was no C3 reduction in factor B-deficient mice treated similarly.
 Studies of C3 and factor B activation in vitro by CVF
 demonstrated that in factor D-deficient serum the α chain of C3 was
 cleaved gradually over a period of 60 min without detectable cleavage
 of factor B. CVF-dependent C3 cleavage in the deficient serum required
 the presence of Mg2+, whereas in normal mouse serum the
 presence of divalent cations was not required. These results suggest
 that in mouse proteolytic cleavage of factor B by factor D is not an
 absolute requirement for the zymogen to active enzyme conformational
 transition of CVF-bound factor B. Kinetics of opsonization of
 Streptococcus pneumoniae by C3 fragments was much slower
 in factor D-deficient serum, suggesting a significant contribution of
 the alternative pathway to antibacterial host defense early after
 infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Both nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen, and
 the prototypical selective cyclooxygenase (Cox)-2 inhibitors DuP-697
 and NS-398 block the inhibition of Cox-1 by aspirin in
 vitro. However, clinical studies have shown that the
 Cox-2 selective drugs (or coxibs) rofecoxib and etoricoxib, at
 therapeutic doses, do not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of
 aspirin, in contrast to ibuprofen. Here, we have evaluated the relative
 potential of ibuprofen and various coxibs to interfere with the
 inactivation of Cox-1 by aspirin by using purified enzyme and calcium
 ionophore-activated human platelets. The irreversible inactivation of
 Cox-1 by aspirin can be antagonized by ibuprofen and coxibs, albeit
 with widely different potencies. The rank order of potencies for this
 process (ibuprofen > celecoxib > valdecoxib >
 rofecoxib > etoricoxib) parallels that obtained for the
 inhibition of Cox-1-mediated thromboxane B2 production by
 calcium ionophore-stimulated platelets. The antagonism of aspirin
 therefore likely involves a competition at the enzyme active site. The
 EC50 value for the antagonism against 10 μM aspirin for
 each drug is ≈10- to 40-fold lower than the corresponding
 IC50 value for inhibition of platelet Cox-1 activity,
 consistent with the much weaker initial binding of aspirin to Cox-1 as
 compared with arachidonic acid. These results show that a low affinity
 for Cox-1 and a high degree of Cox-2 selectivity confers a low
 potential to block aspirin inhibition of platelet Cox-1, consistent
 with the results of clinical studies.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Reversal of immunodeficiency in the lung by gene therapy is limited
 in part by the difficulty of transfecting lung cells in
 vivo. Many options exist for successfully transfecting cells
 in vitro, but they are not easily adapted to the
 in vivo condition. To overcome this limitation, we
 transduced macrophages in vitro with the murine IFN-γ
 (mIFN-γ) gene and intratracheally delivered the macrophages to
 express mIFN-γ in vivo. A recombinant retroviral
 vector pSF91 system was modified to encode mIFN-γ and enhanced green
 fluorescent protein (EGFP). A murine macrophage cell line
 J774A.1 transduced with the retroviral supernatant increased secretion
 from undetectable levels to 131.6 ± 4.2 μg/ml mIFN-γ at
 24 h in vitro. The mIFN-γ-producing macrophages
 were intratracheally instilled into mechanically ventilated
 scid mice. mIFN-γ levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage
 increased from undetectable levels at baseline to 158.8 ± 5.1
 pg/ml at 48 h (P < 0.001). Analysis of the
 lavaged cells for EGFP expression revealed that EGFP expression was
 directly proportional to the number of transduced macrophages instilled
 into the lung. Immune function was partially restored in the alveolar
 spaces of scid mice with evidence of enhanced MHC class
 II antigen expression and increased phagocytosis (P
 < 0.05). Tumor necrosis factor α was increased from undetectable at
 baseline to 103.5 ± 11.4 pg/ml. In contrast, i.p. administration
 of the engineered macrophages did not enhance IFN-γ levels in the
 lung. Our study suggests airway delivery of genetically engineered
 macrophages expressing mIFN-γ gene can partially restore significant
 immune activity in the lungs of immunodeficient mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We are developing assays to image tissue-specific reporter gene
 expression in living mice by using optical methods and positron
 emission tomography. Approaches for imaging reporter gene
 expression depend on robust levels of mRNA and reporter protein.
 Attempts to image reporter gene expression driven by weak promoters are
 often hampered by the poor transcriptional activity of such promoters.
 Most tissue-specific promoters are weak relative to stronger but
 constitutively expressing viral promoters. In this study, we have
 validated methods to enhance the transcriptional activity of the
 prostate-specific antigen promoter for imaging by using a two-step
 transcriptional amplification (TSTA) system. We used the TSTA system to
 amplify expression of firefly luciferase (fl) and mutant
 herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase
 (HSV1-sr39tk) in a prostate cancer cell line (LNCaP). We
 demonstrate ≈50-fold (fl) and ≈12-fold
 (HSV1-sr39tk) enhancement by using the two-step
 approach. The TSTA system is observed to retain tissue selectivity. A
 cooled charge-coupled device optical imaging system was used to
 visualize the amplified fl expression in living mice
 implanted with LNCaP cells transfected ex vivo. These
 imaging experiments reveal a ≈5-fold gain in imaging signal by using
 the TSTA system over the one-step system. The TSTA approach will be a
 valuable and generalizable tool to amplify and noninvasively image
 reporter gene expression in living animals by using tissue-specific
 promoters. The approaches validated should have important implications
 for study of gene therapy vectors, cell trafficking, transgenic models,
 as well as studying development of eukaryotic organisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Residents of Qidong, People's Republic of China, are at high
 risk for development of hepatocellular carcinoma, in part from
 consumption of foods contaminated with aflatoxins. Chlorophyllin, a
 mixture of semisynthetic, water-soluble derivatives of chlorophyll that
 is used as a food colorant and over-the-counter medicine, has been
 shown to be an effective inhibitor of aflatoxin hepatocarcinogenesis in
 animal models by blocking carcinogen bioavailability. In a randomized,
 double-blind, placebo-controlled chemoprevention trial, we tested
 whether chlorophyllin could alter the disposition of aflatoxin. One
 hundred and eighty healthy adults from Qidong were randomly assigned to
 ingest 100 mg of chlorophyllin or a placebo three times a day for 4
 months. The primary endpoint was modulation of levels of
 aflatoxin-N7-guanine adducts in urine samples collected 3
 months into the intervention measured by using sequential
 immunoaffinity chromatography and liquid chromatography–electrospray
 mass spectrometry. This aflatoxin–DNA adduct excretion product serves
 as a biomarker of the biologically effective dose of aflatoxin, and
 elevated levels are associated with increased risk of liver cancer.
 Adherence to the study protocol was outstanding, and no adverse events
 were reported. Aflatoxin-N7-guanine could be detected in
 105 of 169 available samples. Chlorophyllin consumption at each meal
 led to an overall 55% reduction (P = 0.036) in
 median urinary levels of this aflatoxin biomarker compared with those
 taking placebo. Thus, prophylactic interventions with chlorophyllin or
 supplementation of diets with foods rich in chlorophylls may represent
 practical means to prevent the development of hepatocellular carcinoma
 or other environmentally induced cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Among the several factors that affect the appearance and
 spread of acquired antibiotic resistance, the mutation frequency and
 the biological cost of resistance are of special importance.
 Measurements of the mutation frequency to rifampicin resistance in
 Helicobacter pylori strains isolated from dyspeptic
 patients showed that ≈1/4 of the isolates had higher mutation
 frequencies than Enterobacteriaceae mismatch-repair
 defective mutants. This high mutation frequency could explain why
 resistance is so frequently acquired during antibiotic treatment of
 H. pylori infections. Inactivation of the
 mutS gene had no substantial effect on the mutation
 frequency, suggesting that MutS-dependent mismatch repair is absent in
 this bacterium. Furthermore, clarithromycin resistance conferred a
 biological cost, as measured by a decreased competitive ability of the
 resistant mutants in mice. In clinical isolates this cost could be
 reduced, indicating that compensation is a clinically relevant
 phenomenon that could act to stabilize resistant bacteria in a
 population.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The human opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas
 aeruginosa strain PA14 infects both plants and animals.
 Previously, using plants to screen directly for P.
 aeruginosa virulence-attenuated mutants, we identified a locus,
 pho34B12, relevant in mammalian pathogenesis. Here,
 nonsense point mutations in the two opposing ORFs identified in
 the pho34B12 locus revealed that one of them,
 mvfR (multiple virulence
 factor Regulator), is able to control all
 of the phenotypes that mutant phoA34B12 displays. Both
 genetic and biochemical evidence demonstrate that the
 mvfR gene encodes a LysR-like transcriptional factor
 that positively regulates the production of elastase, phospholipase,
 and of the autoinducers, 3oxo-dodecanoyl homoserine lactone (PAI
 I) and 2-heptyl-3-hydroxy-4-quinolone (PQS), as well as the expression
 of the phnAB operon, involved in phenazine biosynthesis.
 We demonstrate that the MvfR protein is membrane-associated and acts as
 a transcriptional activator until cells reach stationary phase, when a
 unique negative feedback mechanism is activated to signal the
 down-regulation of the MvfR protein. This work reveals an unprecedented
 virulence mechanism of P. aeruginosa and identifies a
 unique indispensable player in the P. aeruginosa
 quorum-sensing cascade.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cancer cells may undergo loss or alterations in functions that
 certain viruses normally target to promote virus replication.
 Virus mutants that have lost the targeting function(s) should be able
 to grow in such cancer cells but not in normal cells. A “tumor host
 range” (t-hr) selection procedure has been devised
 and applied to polyoma virus based on this rationale. Studies of one
 t-hr mutant have led to the identification of the mSal2
 gene product (p150sal2) as a binding partner of the large T
 antigen. mSal2 encodes a multizinc finger protein and putative
 transcription factor homologous to the Drosophila
 homeotic gene Spalt. The t-hr mutant
 encodes an altered large T protein that fails to interact with
 p150sal2 and is defective in replication and tumor
 induction in newborn mice.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Isolates of the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori
 harvested from different individuals are highly polymorphic.
 Strain variation also has been observed within a single host. To more
 fully ascertain the extent of H. pylori genetic
 diversity within the ecological niche of its natural host, we harvested
 additional isolates of the sequenced H. pylori strain
 J99 from its human source patient after a 6-year interval. Randomly
 amplified polymorphic DNA PCR and DNA sequencing of four unlinked loci
 indicated that these isolates were closely related to the original
 strain. In contrast, microarray analysis revealed differences in
 genetic content among all of the isolates that were not detected by
 randomly amplified polymorphic DNA PCR or sequence analysis.
 Several ORFs from loci scattered throughout the chromosome in the
 archival strain did not hybridize with DNA from the recent strains,
 including multiple ORFs within the J99 plasticity zone. In addition,
 DNA from the recent isolates hybridized with probes for ORFs specific
 for the other fully sequenced H. pylori strain 26695,
 including a putative traG homolog. Among the additional
 J99 isolates, patterns of genetic diversity were distinct both when
 compared with each other and to the original prototype isolate. These
 results indicate that within an apparently homogeneous population, as
 determined by macroscale comparison and nucleotide sequence analysis,
 remarkable genetic differences exist among single-colony isolates of
 H. pylori. Direct evidence that H. pylori
 has the capacity to lose and possibly acquire exogenous DNA is
 consistent with a model of continuous microevolution within its cognate
 host.
DOC DONE!Abstract
For all retroviruses, the completion of the viral budding process
 correlates with the activation of the viral protease by an unknown
 mechanism, and, as the structural (Gag) polyproteins are cleaved by the
 viral protease, maturation of the immature virus-like particle into an
 infectious virion. Unlike most retroviruses, the Mason–Pfizer
 monkey virus Gag polyproteins assemble into immature capsids within the
 cytoplasm of the cell before the viral budding event. The results
 reported here describe a unique experimental system in which
 Mason–Pfizer monkey virus immature capsids are removed from the cell,
 and the protease is activated in vitro by the addition
 of a reducing agent. The cleavage of the protease from the precursor
 form is a primary event, which proceeds with a half time of 14 min, and
 is followed by authentic processing of the Gag polyproteins. Activity
 of the viral protease in vitro depends on pH, with an
 increase in catalytic rates at acidic and neutral pH. The initiation of
 protease activity within immature capsids in vitro
 demonstrates that viral protease activity is sensitive to
 oxidation-reduction conditions, and that the viral protease can be
 activated in the absence of viral budding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have shown that the human salivary antifungal
 peptide histatin 5 is taken up by Candida albicans cells
 and associates intracellularly with mitochondria. The purpose of
 the present study was to investigate the biological consequence of this
 specific subcellular targeting. Histatin 5 inhibited respiration of
 isolated C. albicans mitochondria as well as the
 respiration of intact blastoconidia in a dose and time-dependent
 manner. A nearly perfect correlation was observed between
 histatin-induced inhibition of respiration and cell killing with either
 logarithmic- or stationary-phase cells, but stationary-phase cells were
 less sensitive. Because nonrespiring yeast cells are insensitive to
 histatin 5, the potential mechanistic relationship between histatin 5
 interference with the respiratory apparatus and cell killing was
 explored by using an oxygen radical sensitive probe (dihydroethidium).
 Fluorimetric measurements showed that histatin 5 induced the formation
 of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in C. albicans cells as
 well as in isolated mitochondria and that ROS levels were highly
 correlated with cell death. In the presence of an oxygen scavenger
 (l-cysteine), cell killing and ROS formation were
 prevented. In addition, the membrane-permeant superoxide dismutase
 mimetic 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyl, abolished
 histatin-induced ROS formation in isolated mitochondria. In contrast to
 histatin 5, the conventional inhibitors of the respiratory chain,
 sodium cyanide or sodium azide, neither induced ROS nor killed yeast
 cells. These data provide strong evidence for a comprehensive
 mechanistic model of histatin-5-provoked yeast cell death in which
 oxygen radical formation is the ultimate and essential step.
DOC DONE!Abstract
γ-aminobutyric acid type B (GABAB) receptors, G
 protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) for GABA, are obligate heterodimers
 of two homologous subunits, GB1 and GB2. Typical for family C GPCRs,
 the N termini of both GB1 and GB2 contain a domain with homology to
 bacterial periplasmic amino acid-binding proteins (PBPs), but only the
 GB1 PBP-like domain binds GABA. We found that both GB1 and GB2
 extracellular N termini are required for normal coupling of
 GABAB receptors to their physiological effectors,
 Gi and G protein-activated K+ channels (GIRKs).
 Receptors with two GB2 N termini did not respond to GABA, whereas
 receptors with two GB1 N termini showed increased basal activity and
 responded to GABA with inhibition, rather than activation, of GIRK
 channels. This GABA-induced GIRK current inhibition depended on GABA
 binding to the chimeric GB1/2 subunit (the GB1 N-terminal
 domain attached to the heptahelical domain of GB2), rather than the
 wild-type GB1 subunit. Interestingly, receptors with reciprocal
 exchange of N-terminal domains between the subunits were functionally
 indistinguishable from wild-type receptors. We also found that peptide
 linkers between GB1 and GB2 PBP-like domains and respective
 heptahelical domains could be altered without affecting receptor
 function. This finding suggests that other contacts between the
 PBP-like and heptahelical domains underlie ligand-induced signal
 transduction, a finding likely to be relevant for all family C
 GPCRs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Many G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have recently been shown
 to dimerize, and it was suggested that dimerization may be a
 prerequisite for G protein coupling. γ-aminobutyric acid type B
 (GABAB) receptors (GPCRs for GABA, a major inhibitory
 neurotransmitter in the brain) are obligate heterodimers of homologous
 GB1 and GB2 subunits, neither of which is functional on its own. This
 feature of GABAB receptors allowed us to examine which of
 the eight intracellular segments of the heterodimeric receptor were
 important for G protein activation. Replacing any of the three
 intracellular loops of GB2 with their GB1 counterparts resulted in
 nonfunctional receptors. The deletion of the complete GB2 C terminus
 significantly attenuated the receptor function; however, the proximal
 36 residues were sufficient for reconstitution of wild type-like
 receptor activity. In contrast, the GB1 C terminus could be deleted and
 GB1 intracellular loops replaced with their GB2 or mGluR1 equivalents
 without affecting the receptor function. In addition, a large portion
 of the GB1 i2 loop could be replaced with a random coil peptide without
 any functional consequences. Thus, GB2 intracellular segments are
 solely responsible for specific coupling of GABAB receptors
 to their physiologic effectors, Gi and G protein-activated
 K+ channels. These findings strongly support a model in
 which a single GPCR monomer is sufficient for all of the specific G
 protein contacts.
DOC DONE!Abstract
At the neuromuscular junction, two motor neuron-derived
 signals have been implicated in the regulation of synaptogenesis.
 Neuregulin-1 is thought to induce transcription of acetylcholine
 receptor (AChR) genes in subsynaptic muscle nuclei by activating ErbB
 receptors. Neural agrin aggregates AChRs by activating the receptor
 tyrosine kinase MuSK. Here, we show that these two signals act
 sequentially. Agrin, by activating MuSK, induces the synthesis and
 aggregation of both MuSK and ErbB receptors. ErbB acts downstream of
 MuSK in synapse formation. In this way, MuSK activation leads to the
 establishment of a neuregulin-1-dependent signaling complex that
 maintains MuSK, ErbB, and AChR expression at the synapse of
 electrically active muscle fibers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although knowledge of the functions of neurotrophins has advanced
 rapidly in recent years, studies concerning the involvement of
 neurotrophins in glial–neuronal interactions rarely extend further
 than their roles in supporting the survival and differentiation of
 neuronal cells. In this study endogenous
 brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) were
 identified in Schwann cell/dorsal root ganglia neuronal cocultures
 and shown to modulate the myelination program of the peripheral nervous
 system. The differential expression of BDNF and NT3 were examined and
 compared with the expression profiles of myelin proteins in the
 cocultures throughout the myelination process. BDNF levels correlated
 with active myelin formation, whereas NT3 expression was initially high
 and then down regulated throughout the proliferation and premyelination
 periods. Addition of exogenous BDNF enhanced myelination, whereas the
 removal of the endogenous BDNF by using the BDNF receptor
 TrkB-Fc fusion protein inhibited the formation of mature myelin
 internodes. Interestingly, exogenous NT3 significantly inhibited
 myelination, whereas the removal of the endogenous NT3 by
 using the NT3 receptor TrkC-Fc fusion protein resulted in an
 enhancement similar to that obtained with the addition of BDNF. In
 addition, in vivo studies were performed during the
 development of the mouse sciatic nerve. Subcutaneous injections of BDNF
 resulted in an enhancement of myelin formation in the sciatic nerve,
 whereas the removal of the endogenous BDNF dramatically
 inhibited myelination. Injections of NT3 inhibited myelin formation,
 and the removal of the endogenous NT3 enhanced myelination.
 These results demonstrate that BDNF and NT3 possess different
 modulatory roles in the myelination program of the peripheral nervous
 system and that their mechanisms of action are specific and highly
 regulated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder
 characterized by the loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra,
 decreased striatal dopamine levels, and consequent extrapyramidal motor
 dysfunction. We now report that minocycline, a semisynthetic
 tetracycline, recently shown to have neuroprotective effects in animal
 models of stroke/ischemic injury and Huntington's disease, prevents
 nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration in the
 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of
 Parkinson's disease. Minocycline treatment also blocked dopamine
 depletion in the striatum as well as in the nucleus accumbens after
 MPTP administration. The neuroprotective effect of minocycline is
 associated with marked reductions in inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and
 caspase 1 expression. In vitro studies using primary
 cultures of mesencephalic and cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) and/or
 glia demonstrate that minocycline inhibits both
 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+)-mediated iNOS expression
 and NO-induced neurotoxicity, but MPP+-induced
 neurotoxicity is inhibited only in the presence of glia. Further,
 minocycline also inhibits NO-induced phosphorylation of p38
 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in CGN and the p38 MAPK
 inhibitor, SB203580, blocks NO toxicity of CGN. Our results suggest
 that minocycline blocks MPTP neurotoxicity in vivo by
 indirectly inhibiting MPTP/MPP+-induced glial iNOS
 expression and/or directly inhibiting NO-induced neurotoxicity, most
 likely by inhibiting the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK. Thus, NO appears
 to play an important role in MPTP neurotoxicity. Neuroprotective
 tetracyclines may be effective in preventing or slowing the progression
 of Parkinson's and other neurodegenerative diseases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Memory impairment progressing to dementia is the main
 clinical symptom of Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is characterized
 histologically by the presence of β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and
 neurofibrillary tangles in specific brain regions. Although Aβ
 derived from the Aβ precursor protein (β-APP) is believed to play a
 central etiological role in AD, it is not clear whether soluble
 and/or fibrillar forms are responsible for the memory deficit. We
 have generated and previously described mice expressing human wild-type
 β-APP751 isoform in neurons. These transgenic mice
 recapitulate early histopathological features of AD and form Aβ
 deposits but no plaques. Here we describe a specific and progressive
 learning and memory impairment in these animals. In the Morris water
 maze, a spatial memory task sensitive to hippocampal damage, one
 pedigree already showed significant differences in acquisition in
 3-month-old mice that increased in severity with age and were expressed
 clearly in 6-month- and 2-year-old animals. The second transgenic
 pedigree displayed a milder impairment with a later age of onset.
 Performance deficits significantly decreased during the 6 days of
 training in young but not in aged transgenic animals. Both pedigrees of
 the transgenic mice differed from wild-type mice by less expressed
 increase of escape latencies after the platform position had been
 changed in the reversal experiment and by failure to prefer the goal
 quadrant in probe trials. Both pedigrees performed at wild-type level
 in a number of other tests (open field exploration and passive and
 active place avoidance). The results suggest that plaque formation is
 not a necessary condition for the neuronal β-APP751
 transgene-induced memory impairment, which may be caused by β-APP
 overexpression, isoform misexpression, or elevated soluble Aβ.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) promotes
 the survival of postnatal—but not embryonic—mouse dorsal root
 ganglion cells in vitro, despite the fact that its
 receptors are expressed at both ages. To understand this difference, we
 have performed an oligonucleotide microarray experiment. We found that
 several hundred genes were regulated between embryonic and postnatal
 stages, and that several important classes of genes were differentially
 regulated by GDNF treatment, including genes related to translation and
 to phenotypic specification and maturation. Interestingly, a set of
 genes related to cell adhesion, cytoskeleton and cellular morphology
 were consistently down-regulated by GDNF, suggesting a previously
 uncharacterized role for GDNF in repressing neurite growth
 and/or branching. This nuclear program initiated by GDNF was
 functionally confirmed in cultures of embryonic wild-type neurons
 sustained with nerve growth factor and in bax−/−
 neurons that survive in the absence of trophic support.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In mammals, RNA editing by site-selective adenosine
 deamination regulates key functional properties of neurotransmitter
 receptors in the central nervous system. Glutamate receptor subunit B
 is nearly 100% edited at one position (the Q/R-site), which is
 essential for normal receptor function. Its significance is
 apparent from mouse models in which a slightly reduced rate of
 Q/R-site editing is associated with early onset epilepsy and
 premature death. Here we report that in tissues from malignant human
 brain tumors, this editing position of glutamate receptor subunit B is
 substantially underedited compared with control tissues. We also
 observe alterations in editing and alternative splicing of serotonin
 receptor 5-HT2C transcripts. These changes correlate with a
 decrease in enzymatic activity of the editing enzyme adenosine
 deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) 2, as deduced from analysis of ADAR2
 self-editing. Our results suggest a role for RNA editing in tumor
 progression and may provide a molecular model explaining the occurrence
 of epileptic seizures in association with malignant gliomas.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Olfaction plays a major role in host preference and blood
 feeding, integral behaviors for disease transmission by the malaria
 vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto
 (henceforth A. gambiae). We have identified four genes
 encoding candidate odorant receptors from A. gambiae
 that are selectively expressed in olfactory organs, contain
 approximately seven transmembrane domains, and show significant
 similarity to several putative odorant receptors in Drosophila
 melanogaster. Furthermore, one of the putative A.
 gambiae odorant receptors exhibits female-specific antennal
 expression and is down-regulated 12 h after blood feeding, a
 period during which substantial reduction in olfactory responses to
 human odorants has been observed. Taken together, these data suggest
 these genes encode a family of odorant receptors in A.
 gambiae, whose further study may aid in the design of novel
 antimalarial programs.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Visual deprivation induces a rapid increase in visual cortex
 excitability that may result in better consolidation of spatial memory
 in animals and in lower visual recognition thresholds in humans.
 γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic,
 N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), and cholinergic
 receptors are thought to be involved in visual cortex plasticity in
 animal studies. Here, we used a pharmacological approach and found that
 lorazepam (which enhances GABAA receptor function by acting
 as a positive allosteric modulator), dextrometorphan (NMDA receptor
 antagonist), and scopolamine (muscarinic receptor antagonist) blocked
 rapid plastic changes associated with light deprivation. These findings
 suggest the involvement of GABA, NMDA, and cholinergic receptors in
 rapid experience-dependent plasticity in the human visual cortex.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neurotrophins have been shown to be involved in functional
 strengthening of central nervous system synapses. Although their
 general importance in this process is undisputed, it remains unresolved
 whether neurotrophins are truly mediators of synaptic strengthening or
 merely important cofactors. To address this question, we have devised a
 method to inactivate endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic
 factor (BDNF) with high time resolution by “caging” a
 function-blocking mAb against BDNF with a photosensitive protecting
 compound. Different assays were used to show that this inactivation of
 the Ab is reversible by UV light. Synaptic potentiation after
 τ-burst stimulation in the CA1 region of acute hippocampal slices
 was significantly less when applying the unmodified Ab compared with
 the caged Ab. Importantly, photoactivation of the caged Ab during
 the time of induction of synaptic enhancement led to a marked decrease
 in potentiation. Our experiments therefore strengthen the view that
 endogenous BDNF has fast effects during induction of
 synaptic plasticity. The results additionally show that caged Abs can
 provide a tool for precise spatiotemporal control over
 endogenous protein levels.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mossy fiber-CA3 pyramidal neuron synapse is a main
 component of the hippocampal trisynaptic circuitry. Recent studies,
 however, suggested that inhibitory interneurons are the major targets
 of the mossy fiber system. To study the regulation of mossy
 fiber-interneuron excitation, we examined unitary and compound
 excitatory postsynaptic currents in dentate gyrus basket cells,
 evoked by paired recording between granule and basket cells or
 extracellular stimulation of mossy fiber collaterals. The application
 of an associative high-frequency stimulation paradigm induced
 posttetanic potentiation (PTP) followed by homosynaptic long-term
 potentiation (LTP). Analysis of numbers of failures, coefficient of
 variation, and paired-pulse modulation indicated that both PTP and LTP
 were expressed presynaptically. The Ca2+ chelator
 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetic
 acid (BAPTA) did not affect PTP or LTP at a concentration of 10 mM but
 attenuated LTP at a concentration of 30 mM. Both forskolin, an adenylyl
 cyclase activator, and phorbolester diacetate, a protein kinase C
 stimulator, lead to a long-lasting increase in excitatory postsynaptic
 current amplitude. H-89, a protein kinase A inhibitor, and
 bisindolylmaleimide, a protein kinase C antagonist, reduced PTP,
 whereas only bisindolylmaleimide reduced LTP. These results may
 suggest a differential contribution of protein kinase A and C pathways
 to mossy fiber-interneuron plasticity. Interneuron PTP and LTP may
 provide mechanisms to maintain the balance between synaptic excitation
 of interneurons and that of principal neurons in the dentate gyrus-CA3
 network.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The KCl cotransporter (KCC) plays a significant role in the
 ionic and osmotic homeostasis of many cell types. Four KCC isoforms
 have been cloned. KCC1 and KCC4 activity is osmolality-sensitive and
 involved in volume regulation. KCC2, a neuronal-specific isoform, can
 lower intracellular Cl− and is critical for inhibitory
 GABA responses in the mature central nervous system. KCC3, initially
 cloned from vascular endothelial cells, is widely but not universally
 distributed and has an unknown physiological significance. Here we show
 a tight link between the expression and activity of KCC3 and cell
 growth by a NIH/3T3 fibroblast expression system. KCC3 activity is
 sensitive to [(dihydroindenyl)oxy] alkanoic acid (DIOA) and
 N-ethylmaleimide and is regulated by tyrosine
 phosphorylation. Osmotic swelling does not activate KCC3, and the
 process of regulatory volume decrease is refractory to DIOA, indicating
 that KCC3 is not involved in volume regulation. KCC3 expression
 enhances cell proliferation, and this growth advantage can be abolished
 by the inhibition of KCC3 by DIOA. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting
 measurements and Western blot analysis show DIOA caused a significant
 reduction of the cell fraction in proliferative phase and a change in
 phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein (Rb) and cdc2, suggesting
 that KCC3 activity is important for cell cycle progression.
 Insulin-like growth factor-1 up-regulates KCC3 expression and
 stimulates cell growth. Tumor necrotic factor-α down-regulates KCC3
 expression and causes growth arrest. These data indicate that KCC3 is
 an important KCC isoform that may be involved in cell proliferation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Our hypothesis is that leptin release is controlled
 neurohormonally. Conscious, male rats bearing indwelling,
 external, jugular catheters were injected with the test drug or 0.9%
 NaCl (saline), and blood samples were drawn thereafter to measure
 plasma leptin. Anesthesia decreased plasma leptin concentrations within
 10 min to a minimum at 120 min, followed by a rebound at 360 min.
 Administration (i.v.) of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) increased plasma
 leptin to almost twice baseline by 120 min, and it remained on a
 plateau for 360 min, accompanied by increased adipocyte leptin mRNA.
 Anesthesia largely blunted the LPS-induced leptin release at 120 min.
 Isoproterenol (β-adrenergic agonist) failed to alter plasma leptin
 but reduced LPS-induced leptin release significantly. Propranolol
 (β-receptor antagonist) produced a significant increase in plasma
 leptin but had no effect on the response to LPS. Phentolamine
 (α-adrenergic receptor blocker) not only increased plasma leptin
 (P < 0.001), but also augmented the LPS-induced
 increase (P < 0.001). α-Bromoergocryptine
 (dopaminergic-2 receptor agonist) decreased plasma leptin
 (P < 0.01) and blunted the LPS-induced rise in
 plasma leptin release (P < 0.001). We conclude
 that leptin is at least in part controlled neurally because anesthesia
 decreased plasma leptin and blocked its response to LPS. The findings
 that phentolamine and propranolol increased plasma leptin
 concentrations suggest that leptin release is inhibited by the
 sympathetic nervous system mediated principally by α-adrenergic
 receptors because phentolamine, but not propranolol, augmented the
 response to LPS. Because α-bromoergocryptine decreased basal and
 LPS-induced leptin release, dopaminergic neurons may inhibit basal and
 LPS-induced leptin release by suppression of release of prolactin from
 the adenohypophysis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
When expressed in tobacco cells, the catalytic subunit of the
 dimeric ribosome inactivating protein, ricin, is first inserted into
 the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and then degraded in a manner that can
 be partially inhibited by the proteasome inhibitor
 clasto-lactacystin β-lactone. Consistent with
 the implication of cytosolic proteasomes, degradation of ricin A chain
 is brefeldin A-insensitive and the polypeptides that accumulate in the
 presence of the proteasome inhibitor are not processed in a
 vacuole-specific fashion. Rather, these stabilized polypeptides are in
 part deglycosylated by a peptide:N-glycanase-like
 activity. Taken together, these results indicate that ricin A chain,
 albeit a structurally native protein, can behave as a substrate for ER
 to cytosol export, deglycosylation in the cytosol, and proteasomal
 degradation. Furthermore, retrotranslocation of this protein is not
 tightly coupled to proteasomal activity. These data are consistent with
 the hypothesis that ricin A chain can exploit the ER-associated protein
 degradation pathway to reach the cytosol. Although well
 characterized in mammalian and yeast cells, the operation of a similar
 pathway to the cytosol of plant cells has not previously been
 demonstrated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The large vascular meristem of poplar trees with its highly
 organized secondary xylem enables the boundaries between different
 developmental zones to be easily distinguished. This property of
 wood-forming tissues allowed us to determine a unique tissue-specific
 transcript profile for a well defined developmental gradient. RNA was
 prepared from different developmental stages of xylogenesis for DNA
 microarray analysis by using a hybrid aspen unigene set consisting of
 2,995 expressed sequence tags. The analysis revealed that the genes
 encoding lignin and cellulose biosynthetic enzymes, as well as a number
 of transcription factors and other potential regulators of xylogenesis,
 are under strict developmental stage-specific transcriptional
 regulation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The efficiency with which crop plants use their resources of light,
 water, and fertilizer nitrogen could be enhanced by replacing
 their CO2-fixing enzyme,
 d-ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase
 (RubisCO), with more efficient forms, such as those found in some
 algae, for example. This important challenge has been frustrated by
 failure of all previous attempts to substitute a fully functional,
 foreign RubisCO (efficient or inefficient) into higher plants. This
 failure could be caused by incompatibility between the plastid-encoded
 large subunits and the nucleus-encoded small subunits or by inability
 of the foreign RubisCO subunits to fold or assemble efficiently in the
 plastid. Mismatch between the regulatory requirements of the foreign
 RubisCO and conditions in the chloroplast also might render the
 substituted enzyme inactive but, previously, it has not been possible
 to test this. To answer the general question of whether a foreign
 RubisCO can support photosynthesis in a plant, we used plastid
 transformation to replace RubisCO in tobacco with the simple
 homodimeric form of the enzyme from the α-proteobacterium,
 Rhodospirillum rubrum, which has no small subunits and
 no special assembly requirements. The transplastomic plants so obtained
 are fully autotrophic and reproductive but require CO2
 supplementation, consistent with the kinetic properties of the
 bacterial RubisCO. This establishes that the activity of a RubisCO from
 a very different phylogeny can be integrated into chloroplast
 photosynthetic metabolism without prohibitive problems.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Fluorescence superquenching is investigated for polyelectrolytes
 consisting of cyanine dye pendant polylysines ranging in number of
 polymer repeat units (NPRU) from 1 to 900, both in solution
 and after adsorption onto silica nanoparticles. As
 NPRU increases, the absorption and fluorescence evolve from
 monomer spectra to red-shifted features indicative of molecular J
 aggregates. In solution, the superquenching sensitivity toward an
 anionic electron acceptor increases by more than a millionfold over the
 NPRU range from 1 to 900. The dramatic increase is
 attributed to enhanced equilibrium constants for binding the quenchers,
 and the amplified quenching of a delocalized exciton of ≈100 polymer
 repeat units. The self-assembly of monomer onto silica and clay
 nanoparticles leads to formation of J aggregates, and surface-activated
 superquenching enhanced 10,000× over the monomer in solution,
 indicating the formation of “self-assembled polymers” on the
 nanoparticle surface. Utilization of these self-assembled polymers as
 high-sensitivity biosensors is demonstrated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sir2p is an NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase
 required for chromatin-dependent silencing in yeast. In a cell-based
 screen for inhibitors of Sir2p, we identified a compound, splitomicin,
 that creates a conditional phenocopy of a sir2
 deletion mutant in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cells grown
 in the presence of the drug have silencing defects at telomeres, silent
 mating-type loci, and the ribosomal DNA. In addition, whole genome
 microarray experiments show that splitomicin selectively inhibits
 Sir2p. In vitro, splitomicin inhibits
 NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase activity (HDA) of the
 Sir2 protein. Mutations in SIR2 that confer
 resistance to the drug map to the likely acetylated histone tail
 binding domain of the protein. By using splitomicin as a chemical
 genetic probe, we demonstrate that continuous HDA of Sir2p is required
 for maintaining a silenced state in nondividing cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We present a theory for uniaxial nematic elastomers with variable
 asphericity. As an application of the theory, we consider the
 time-independent, isochoric extension of a right circular cylinder.
 Numerical solutions to the resulting differential equation are obtained
 for a range of extensions. For sufficiently large extensions, there
 exists an isotropic core of material surrounding the cylinder axis
 where the asphericity vanishes and in which the polymeric molecules are
 shaped as spherical coils. This region, corresponding to a disclination
 of strength +1 manifesting itself along the axis, is bounded by a
 narrow transition layer across which the asphericity drops rapidly and
 attains a nontrivial negative value. Away from the disclination, the
 material is anisotropic, and the polymeric molecules are shaped as
 ellipsoidal coils of revolution oblate about the radial direction.
 Along with the area of steeply changing asphericity between isotropic
 and anisotropic regimes, a marked drop in the free-energy density is
 observed. The boundary of the disclination core is associated with the
 location of this energy drop. For realistic choices of material
 parameters, this criterion yields a core on the order of
 10−2 μm, which coincides with observations in
 conventional liquid crystal melts. Finally, we find that the total
 energy definitively shows a preference for disclinated states.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The growth rate of climate forcing by measured greenhouse gases
 peaked near 1980 at almost 5 W/m2 per century.
 This growth rate has since declined to ≈3 W/m2 per
 century, largely because of cooperative international actions. We argue
 that trends can be reduced to the level needed for the moderate
 “alternative” climate scenario (≈2 W/m2 per
 century for the next 50 years) by means of concerted actions that have
 other benefits, but the forcing reductions are not automatic
 “co-benefits” of actions that slow CO2 emissions.
 Current trends of climate forcings by aerosols remain very uncertain.
 Nevertheless, practical constraints on changes in emission levels
 suggest that global warming at a rate +0.15 ± 0.05°C per decade
 will occur over the next several decades.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The terrestrial carbon sink, as of yet unidentified, represents
 15–30% of annual global emissions of carbon from fossil fuels and
 industrial activities. Some of the missing carbon is sequestered
 in vegetation biomass and, under the Kyoto Protocol of the United
 Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, industrialized nations
 can use certain forest biomass sinks to meet their greenhouse gas
 emissions reduction commitments. Therefore, we analyzed 19 years of
 data from remote-sensing spacecraft and forest inventories to identify
 the size and location of such sinks. The results, which cover the years
 1981–1999, reveal a picture of biomass carbon gains in Eurasian boreal
 and North American temperate forests and losses in some Canadian boreal
 forests. For the 1.42 billion hectares of Northern forests, roughly
 above the 30th parallel, we estimate the biomass sink to be 0.68
 ± 0.34 billion tons carbon per year, of which nearly 70% is in
 Eurasia, in proportion to its forest area and in disproportion to its
 biomass carbon pool. The relatively high spatial resolution of these
 estimates permits direct validation with ground data and contributes to
 a monitoring program of forest biomass sinks under the Kyoto protocol.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Previous studies have established that people encode the race of
 each individual they encounter, and do so via computational processes
 that appear to be both automatic and mandatory. If true, this
 conclusion would be important, because categorizing others by their
 race is a precondition for treating them differently according to race.
 Here we report experiments, using unobtrusive measures, showing that
 categorizing individuals by race is not inevitable, and supporting an
 alternative hypothesis: that encoding by race is instead a reversible
 byproduct of cognitive machinery that evolved to detect coalitional
 alliances. The results show that subjects encode coalitional
 affiliations as a normal part of person representation. More
 importantly, when cues of coalitional affiliation no longer track or
 correspond to race, subjects markedly reduce the extent to which they
 categorize others by race, and indeed may cease doing so entirely.
 Despite a lifetime's experience of race as a predictor of social
 alliance, less than 4 min of exposure to an alternate social world was
 enough to deflate the tendency to categorize by race. These results
 suggest that racism may be a volatile and eradicable construct that
 persists only so long as it is actively maintained through being linked
 to parallel systems of social alliance.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Caspases form a family of proteinases required for the initiation
 and execution phases of apoptosis. Distinct
 proapoptotic stimuli lead to activation of the initiator
 caspases-8 and -9, which in turn activate the common executioner
 caspases-3 and -7 by proteolytic cleavage. Whereas crystal structures
 of several active caspases have been reported, no three-dimensional
 structure of an uncleaved caspase zymogen is available so far. We have
 determined the 2.9-Å crystal structure of recombinant human
 C285A procaspase-7 and have elucidated the activation
 mechanism of caspases. The overall fold of the homodimeric procaspase-7
 resembles that of the active tetrameric caspase-7. Each monomer is
 organized in two structured subdomains connected by partially flexible
 linkers, which asymmetrically occupy and block the central cavity, a
 typical feature of active caspases. This blockage is incompatible with
 a functional substrate binding site/active site. After proteolytic
 cleavage within the flexible linkers, the newly formed chain termini
 leave the cavity and fold outward to form stable structures. These
 conformational changes are associated with the formation of an intact
 active-site cleft. Therefore, this mechanism represents a
 formerly unknown type of proteinase zymogen activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In this paper, an approach is described that combines
 multiple structure alignments and multiple sequence alignments
 to generate sequence profiles for protein families. First, multiple
 sequence alignments are generated from sequences that are closely
 related to each sequence of known three-dimensional structure. These
 alignments then are merged through a multiple structure alignment of
 family members of known structure. The merged alignment is used to
 generate a Hidden Markov Model for the family in question. The Hidden
 Markov Model can be used to search for new family members or to
 improve alignments for distantly related family members that already
 have been identified. Application of a profile generated for SH2
 domains indicates that the Janus family of nonreceptor protein tyrosine
 kinases contains SH2 domains. This conclusion is strongly supported by
 the results of secondary structure-prediction programs, threading
 calculations, and the analysis of comparative models generated for
 these domains. One of the Janus kinases, human TYK2, has an SH2 domain
 that contains a histidine instead of the conserved arginine at the key
 phosphotyrosine-binding position, βB5. Calculations of the
 pKa values of the βB5 arginines in a number of SH2
 domains and of the βB5 histidine in a homology model of TYK2 suggest
 that this histidine is likely to be neutral around pH 7, thus
 indicating that it may have lost the ability to bind phosphotyrosine.
 If this indeed is the case, TYK2 may contain a domain with an SH2 fold
 that has a modified binding specificity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The three-dimensional reconstruction of the bovine kidney
 pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (Mr ≈
 7.8 × 106) comprising about 22 molecules of pyruvate
 dehydrogenase (E1) and about 6 molecules of
 dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3) with its binding
 protein associated with the 60-subunit dihydrolipoamide
 acetyltransferase (E2) core provides considerable insight
 into the structural and functional organization of the largest
 multienzyme complex known. The structure shows that potentially 60
 centers for acetyl-CoA synthesis are organized in sets of three at each
 of the 20 vertices of the pentagonal dodecahedral core. These centers
 consist of three E1 molecules bound to one E2
 trimer adjacent to an E3 molecule in each of 12 pentagonal
 openings. The E1 components are anchored to the
 E1-binding domain of the E2 subunits through an
 ≈50-Å-long linker. Three of these linkers emanate from the outside
 edges of the triangular base of the E2 trimer and form a
 cage around its base that may shelter the lipoyl domains and the
 E1 and E2 active sites. The docking of the
 atomic structures of E1 and the E1 binding and
 lipoyl domains of E2 in the electron microscopy map gives a
 good fit and indicates that the E1 active site is ≈95 Å
 above the base of the trimer. We propose that the lipoyl domains and
 its tether (swinging arm) rotate about the E1-binding
 domain of E2, which is centrally located 45–50 Å from the
 E1, E2, and E3 active sites, and
 that the highly flexible breathing core augments the transfer of
 intermediates between active sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
As the first structural elucidation of a modular
 polyketide synthase (PKS) domain, the crystal structure of the
 macrocycle-forming thioesterase (TE) domain from the
 6-deoxyerythronolide B synthase (DEBS) was solved by a combination of
 multiple isomorphous replacement and multiwavelength anomalous
 dispersion and refined to an R factor of 24.1% to
 2.8-Å resolution. Its overall tertiary architecture belongs to the
 α/β-hydrolase family, with two unusual features
 unprecedented in this family: a hydrophobic leucine-rich dimer
 interface and a substrate channel that passes through the entire
 protein. The active site triad, comprised of Asp-169, His-259, and
 Ser-142, is located in the middle of the substrate channel, suggesting
 the passage of the substrate through the protein. Modeling indicates
 that the active site can accommodate and orient the
 6-deoxyerythronolide B precursor uniquely, while at the same time
 shielding the active site from external water and catalyzing
 cyclization by macrolactone formation. The geometry and organization of
 functional groups explain the observed substrate specificity of this TE
 and offer strategies for engineering macrocycle biosynthesis. Docking
 of a homology model of the upstream acyl carrier protein (ACP6) against
 the TE suggests that the 2-fold axis of the TE dimer may also be the
 axis of symmetry that determines the arrangement of domains in the
 entire DEBS. Sequence conservation suggests that all TEs from modular
 polyketide synthases have a similar fold, dimer 2-fold axis, and
 substrate channel geometry.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Atypical protein isoaspartyl residues arise spontaneously
 during the aging process from the deamidation of protein asparaginyl
 residues and the isomerization of protein aspartyl residues.
 These abnormal residues are modified in cells by a strongly
 conserved protein carboxyl methyltransferase (PCMT) as a first step in
 a repair pathway. Because a decline in cellular repair mechanisms is
 hypothesized to contribute to senescence, we determined whether
 increased PCMT activity was correlated with enhanced longevity. Two
 ubiquitous promoters were used with the binary GAL4-UAS system to drive
 PCMT overexpression in Drosophila melanogaster. Flies
 expressing PCMT activity under the regulation of either the
 hsp70 or actin5C promoter had enzyme activities
 that were 3- or 7-fold higher, respectively, than control flies at
 29°C. Correlated with the observed increases in PCMT activities, such
 flies lived on average 32–39% longer than control flies. Lifespan
 extension was not observed at 25°C with either hsp70- or
 actin5C-driven expression, indicating a
 temperature-dependent effect on longevity. We conclude that protein
 repair is an important factor in the determination of lifespan under
 certain environmental conditions. PCMT activity may become limiting
 under mild stress conditions that accelerate rates of protein damage.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The amino acid sequence rules that specify β-sheet structure in
 proteins remain obscure. A subclass of β-sheet proteins,
 parallel β-helices, represent a processive folding of the chain into
 an elongated topologically simpler fold than globular β-sheets. In
 this paper, we present a computational approach that predicts the
 right-handed parallel β-helix supersecondary structural motif in
 primary amino acid sequences by using β-strand interactions learned
 from non-β-helix structures. A program called
 BETAWRAP
 (http://theory.lcs.mit.edu/betawrap) implements this
 method and recognizes each of the seven known parallel β-helix
 families, when trained on the known parallel β-helices from outside
 that family. BETAWRAP identifies 2,448 sequences
 among 595,890 screened from the National Center for Biotechnology
 Information (NCBI; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) nonredundant
 protein database as likely parallel β-helices. It identifies
 surprisingly many bacterial and fungal protein sequences that play a
 role in human infectious disease; these include toxins, virulence
 factors, adhesins, and surface proteins of Chlamydia,
 Helicobacteria, Bordetella,
 Leishmania, Borrelia,
 Rickettsia, Neisseria, and
 Bacillus anthracis. Also unexpected was the rarity of
 the parallel β-helix fold and its predicted sequences among higher
 eukaryotes. The computational method introduced here can be called a
 three-dimensional dynamic profile method because it generates
 interstrand pairwise correlations from a processive sequence wrap. Such
 methods may be applicable to recognizing other beta structures for
 which strand topology and profiles of residue accessibility are well
 conserved.
DOC DONE!Abstract
An important goal in biology is to predict from sequence
 data the high-resolution structures of proteins and the interactions
 that occur between them. In this paper, we describe a computational
 approach that can make these types of predictions for a series of
 coiled-coil dimers. Our method comprises a dual strategy that augments
 extensive conformational sampling with molecular mechanics
 minimization. To test the performance of the method, we designed six
 heterodimeric coiled coils with a range of stabilities and solved x-ray
 crystal structures for three of them. The stabilities and structures
 predicted by the calculations agree very well with experimental data:
 the average error in unfolding free energies is <1 kcal/mol, and
 nonhydrogen atoms in the predicted structures superimpose onto the
 experimental structures with rms deviations <0.7 Å. We have also
 tested the method on a series of homodimers derived from
 vitellogenin-binding protein. The predicted relative stabilities of the
 homodimers show excellent agreement with previously published
 experimental measurements. A critical step in our procedure is to use
 energy minimization to relax side-chain geometries initially selected
 from a rotamer library. Our results show that computational methods can
 predict interaction specificities that are in good agreement with
 experimental data.
DOC DONE!Abstract
External guide sequences (EGSs) are oligonucleotides that consist
 of a sequence complementary to a target mRNA and recruit intracellular
 RNase P for specific degradation of the target RNA. In this
 study, DNA-based EGS molecules were chemically synthesized to target
 the mRNA coding for the protease of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). The
 EGS molecules efficiently directed human RNase P to cleave the target
 mRNA sequence in vitro. When EGSs were exogenously
 administered into HCMV-infected human foreskin fibroblasts, a reduction
 of about 80–90% in the expression level of the protease and a
 reduction of about 300-fold in HCMV growth were observed in the cells
 that were treated with a functional EGS, but not in cells that were not
 treated with the EGS or with a “disabled” EGS carrying nucleotide
 mutations that precluded RNase P recognition. Moreover, packaging of
 the viral DNA genome into the capsid was blocked in the cells treated
 with the functional EGS. These results indicate that HCMV protease is
 essential for viral DNA encapsidation. Moreover, our study provides
 direct evidence that exogenous administration of a DNA-based EGS
 can be used as a therapeutic approach for inhibiting gene expression
 and replication of a human virus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recombinant Escherichia coli cells engineered for
 the expression of the xylB gene in conjunction with
 genes of the nonmevalonate pathway were supplied with
 13C-labeled 1-deoxy-d-xylulose. Cell extracts
 were analyzed directly by NMR spectroscopy. 13C-labeled
 2C-methyl-d-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate
 was detected at high levels in cells expressing xylB,
 ispC, ispD, ispE, and
 ispF. The additional expression of the
 gcpE gene afforded
 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate as an
 intermediate of the nonmevalonate pathway. Hypothetical mechanisms
 involving conserved cysteine residues are proposed for the
 enzymatic conversion of
 2C-methyl-d-erythritol 2,4-cyclodiphosphate
 into 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl 4-diphosphate
 catalyzed by the GcpE protein.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The first step in the biosynthetic pathway of vitamin C in
 plants is the formation, at the level of sugar nucleotide, of
 l-galactosyl residues, catalyzed by a largely unknown
 GDP-d-mannose 3",5"-epimerase. By using combined
 conventional biochemical and mass spectrometry methods, we obtained a
 highly purified preparation of GDP-d-mannose
 3",5"-epimerase from an Arabidopsis thaliana cell
 suspension. The native enzyme is an 84-kDa dimer, composed of two
 apparently identical subunits. In-gel tryptic digestion of the enzyme
 subunit, followed by peptide sequencing and a blast search,
 led to the identification of the epimerase gene. The closest homolog of
 the plant epimerase is the BlmG gene product of
 Streptomyces sp., a putative NDP-d-mannose
 5"-epimerase. The plant GDP-d-mannose 3",5"-epimerase is,
 to our knowledge, a novel member of the extended short-chain
 dehydrogenase/reductase family. The enzyme was cloned and expressed
 in Escherichia coli cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Isomerization of a closed to open complex of a promoter upon
 RNA polymerase binding involves base unpairing at the −10 region.
 After potassium permanganate sensitivity of unpaired thymine residues,
 we studied base unpairing at the −10 region during isomerization upon
 RNA polymerase binding at the P1 and P3
 promoters of the gal operon. Substitution of adenine by
 2-amino purine (2-AP) at the invariable A⋅T base pair at the −11
 position of P1 and P3 prevented unpairing
 not only at that position but also at the other downstream positions,
 suggesting a “master” role of the adenine base at −11 of the
 template strand in overall base unpairing. 2-AP at −11 did not inhibit
 the formation of RNA polymerase⋅promoter complex and subsequent
 isomerization of the polymerase. Substitution of adenine by 2-AP at
 several other positions did not affect thymine unpairing. Changing the
 position of the amino group from C6 in adenine to C2 in 2-AP is
 mutational only at the master switch position, −11.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) catalyzes the
 conversion of methylenetetrahydrofolate to methyltetrahydrofolate, the
 major methyl donor for the conversion of homocysteine to methionine.
 Two common polymorphisms of the human enzyme have been
 identified: 677C>T, which leads to the substitution of Ala-222 by
 valine, and 1298A>C, which leads to the replacement of Glu-429 by
 alanine; the former polymorphism is the most frequent genetic cause of
 mild hyperhomocysteinemia, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. By
 using a baculovirus expression system, recombinant human MTHFR has been
 expressed at high levels and purified to homogeneity in quantities
 suitable for biochemical characterization. The Glu429Ala protein has
 biochemical properties that are indistinguishable from the wild-type
 enzyme. The Ala222Val MTHFR, however, has an enhanced propensity to
 dissociate into monomers and to lose its FAD cofactor on dilution; the
 resulting loss of activity is slowed in the presence of
 methyltetrahydrofolate or adenosylmethionine. This biochemical
 phenotype is in good agreement with predictions made on the basis of
 studies comparing wild-type Escherichia coli MTHFR with
 a mutant, Ala177Val, homologous to the Ala222Val mutant human enzyme
 [Guenther, B. D., et al. (1999) Nat.
 Struct. Biol. 6, 359–365].
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sponges (phylum Porifera) are the phylogenetically oldest
 metazoan animals, their evolution dating back to 600 million years ago.
 Here we demonstrate that sponges express ADP-ribosyl cyclase activity,
 which converts NAD+ into cyclic ADP-ribose, a potent and
 universal intracellular Ca2+ mobilizer. In
 Axinella polypoides (Demospongiae, Axinellidae),
 ADP-ribosyl cyclase was activated by temperature increases by means of
 an abscisic acid-induced, protein kinase A-dependent mechanism. The
 thermosensor triggering this signaling cascade was a heat-activated
 cation channel. Elucidation of the complete thermosensing pathway in
 sponges highlights a number of features conserved in higher organisms:
 (i) the cation channel thermoreceptor, sensitive to
 heat, mechanical stress, phosphorylation, and anesthetics, shares all
 of the functional characteristics of the mammalian heat-activated
 background K+ channel responsible for central and
 peripheral thermosensing; (ii) involvement of the
 phytohormone abscisic acid and cyclic ADP-ribose as its second
 messenger is reminiscent of the drought stress signaling pathway in
 plants. These results suggest an ancient evolutionary origin of this
 stress-signaling cascade in a common precursor of modern Metazoa and
 Metaphyta.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Abl family nonreceptor tyrosine kinases regulate
 cellular morphogenesis and motility through functional interactions
 with the actin cytoskeleton. Although Abl family kinases are known to
 contain filamentous (F)-actin-binding domains at their C termini, it is
 unclear how Abl family kinases regulate the structure and/or
 function of the actin cytoskeleton. We show here that the Abl-related
 kinase Arg binds with positive cooperativity to F-actin in
 vitro with binding saturating at a ratio of one Arg/two actin
 molecules. Measurements of the F-actin-binding properties of Arg
 deletion mutants led to the identification of a second, previously
 uncharacterized internal F-actin-binding domain in Arg. Purified Arg
 can bundle F-actin in vitro, and this bundling activity
 requires both F-actin-binding domains. An Arg-yellow fluorescent
 protein fusion protein can induce the formation of actin-rich
 structures at the lamellipodia of Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. Both of Arg's
 F-actin-binding domains are necessary and sufficient for the formation
 of these actin-rich structures. Together, our data suggest that Arg can
 use its F-actin-bundling activity to directly regulate actin
 cytoskeletal structure in vivo.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Arp2/3 complex, a seven-subunit protein complex
 containing two actin-related proteins, Arp2 and Arp3, initiates
 formation of actin filament networks in response to intracellular
 signals. The molecular mechanism of filament nucleation, however, is
 not well understood. Arp2 and Arp3 are predicted to bind ATP via
 a highly conserved nucleotide-binding domain found in all members of
 the actin superfamily and to form a heterodimer than mimics a
 conventional actin dimer. We show here that adenosine nucleotides bind
 with micromolar affinity to both Arp2 and Arp3 and that hydrolyzable
 ATP is required for actin nucleation activity. Binding of N-WASP WA
 increases the affinity of both Arp2 and Arp3 for ATP but does not alter
 the stoichiometry of nucleotides bound in the presence of saturating
 concentrations of ATP. The Arp2/3 complex bound to ADP or the
 nonhydrolyzable ATP analogue AMP-PNP cannot nucleate actin filaments,
 but addition of the phosphate analogue BeF3 partially
 restores activity to the ADP–Arp2/3 complex. Bound nucleotide also
 regulates the affinity of the Arp2/3 complex for its upstream
 activators N-WASP and ActA. We propose that the active nucleating form
 of the Arp2/3 complex is the ADP-Pi intermediate in the
 ATPase cycle and that the ATPase activity of the Arp2/3 complex
 controls both nucleation of new filaments and release of the Arp2/3
 complex from membrane-associated activators.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The envelope proteins (env) of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)
 and HIV type 1 assemble to form noncovalently associated oligomers in
 the endoplasmic reticulum. After cleavage in a Golgi
 compartment, oligomeric env complexes are transported to the surface of
 infected cells, where incorporation into budding virions can occur.
 Difficulties in obtaining adequate quantities of virions retaining env,
 as well as the unstable nature and hydrophobicity of the oligomer, may
 account for the absence of previous biophysical studies to determine
 the oligomeric valency of membrane-associated env. The aim of this
 study was to evaluate the oligomeric state of SIV env before
 membrane-fusion activation. Virion-associated env, obtained by
 crosslinking and detergent extraction, and non-crosslinked secreted env
 ectodomain (recombinant gp140) were purified by lentil-lectin
 chromatography and gel filtration as single predominant species.
 Sedimentation equilibrium-derived mass values for both forms of SIV env
 were close to those predicted for trimeric assemblies. Determination of
 the mass of individual molecules by scanning transmission electron
 microscopy confirmed that SIV virion-associated env and gp140 formed
 largely homogeneous populations of trimers. Furthermore, a triangular
 or tri-lobed morphology was clearly visualized in a subset of the
 trimers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Enhancers are regulatory DNA elements that can activate their
 genomic targets over a large distance. The mechanism of enhancer
 action over large distance is unknown. Activation of the
 glnAp2 promoter by NtrC-dependent enhancer in
 Escherichia coli was analyzed by using a purified system
 supporting multiple-round transcription in vitro. The
 data suggest that DNA supercoiling is an essential requirement for
 enhancer action over a large distance (2,500 bp) but not over a short
 distance (110 bp). DNA supercoiling facilitates functional
 enhancer–promoter communication over a large distance, probably by
 bringing the enhancer and promoter into close proximity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
One aspect of the function of the β-arrestins is to serve as
 scaffold or adapter molecules coupling G-protein coupled receptors
 (GPCRs) to signal transduction pathways distinct from traditional
 second messenger pathways. Here we report the identification of
 Dishevelled 1 and Dishevelled 2 (Dvl1 and Dvl2) as β-arrestin1
 (βarr1) interacting proteins. Dvl proteins participate as key
 intermediates in signal transmission from the seven membrane-spanning
 Frizzled receptors leading to inhibition of glycogen synthase
 kinase-3β (GSK-3β), stabilization of β-catenin, and activation of
 the lymphoid enhancer factor (LEF) transcription factor. We find that
 phosphorylation of Dvl strongly enhances its interaction with βarr1,
 suggesting that regulation of Dvl phosphorylation and subsequent
 interaction with βarr1 may play a key role in the activation of the
 LEF transcription pathway. Because coexpression of the Dvl kinases,
 CK1ɛ and PAR-1, with Dvl synergistically activates LEF reporter gene
 activity, we reasoned that coexpression of βarr1 with Dvl might also
 affect LEF-dependent gene activation. Interestingly, whereas βarr1 or
 Dvl alone leads to low-level stimulation of LEF (2- to 5-fold),
 coexpression of βarr1 with either Dvl1 or Dvl2 leads to a synergistic
 activation of LEF (up to 16-fold). Additional experiments with LiCl as
 an inhibitor of GSK-3β kinase activity indicate that the step
 affected by βarr1 is upstream of GSK-3β and most likely at the
 level of Dvl. These results identify βarr1 as a regulator of
 Dvl-dependent LEF transcription and suggest that βarr1 might serve as
 an adapter molecule that can couple Frizzled receptors and perhaps
 other GPCRs to these important transcription pathways.
DOC DONE!Abstract
IscR (iron-sulfur
 cluster regulator) is encoded by an ORF
 located immediately upstream of genes coding for the Escherichia
 coli Fe-S cluster assembly proteins, IscS, IscU, and IscA. IscR
 shares amino acid similarity with MarA, a member of the
 MarA/SoxS/Rob family of transcription factors. In this study, we
 found that IscR functions as a repressor of the iscRSUA
 operon, because strains deleted for iscR have increased
 expression of this operon. In addition, in vitro
 transcription reactions established a direct role for IscR in
 repression of the iscR promoter. Analysis of IscR by
 electron paramagnetic resonance showed that the anaerobically isolated
 protein contains a [2Fe-2S]1+ cluster. The Fe-S cluster
 appears to be important for IscR function, because repression of
 iscR expression is significantly reduced in strains
 containing null mutations of the Fe-S cluster assembly genes
 iscS or hscA. The finding that IscR
 activity is decreased in strain backgrounds in which Fe-S cluster
 assembly is impaired suggests that this protein may be part of a novel
 autoregulatory mechanism that senses the Fe-S cluster assembly status
 of cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Four proteins, DpgA–D, required for the biosynthesis by
 actinomycetes of the nonproteinogenic amino acid monomer
 (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (Dpg), that is a
 crosslinking site in the maturation of vancomycin and teicoplanin
 antibiotic scaffolds, were expressed in Escherichia
 coli, purified in soluble form, and assayed for enzymatic
 activity. DpgA is a type III polyketide synthase, converting
 four molecules of malonyl-CoA to 3,5-dihydroxyphenylacetyl-CoA
 (DPA-CoA) and three free coenzyme A (CoASH) products. Almost no
 turnover was observed for DpgA until DpgB was added, producing a net
 kcat of 1–2 min−1 at a 3:1
 ratio of DpgB:DpgA. Addition of DpgD gave a further 2-fold rate
 increase. DpgC had the unusual catalytic capacity to convert DPA-CoA to
 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglyoxylate, which is a transamination away from Dpg.
 DpgC performed a net CH2 to C⩵O four-electron oxidation
 on the Cα of DPA-CoA and hydrolyzed the thioester linkage with a
 kcat of 10 min−1.
 Phenylacetyl-CoA was also processed, to phenylglyoxylate, but with
 about 500-fold lower
 kcat/KM. DpgC
 showed no activity in anaerobic incubations, suggesting an oxygenase
 function, but had no detectable bound organic cofactors or metals. A
 weak enoyl-CoA hydratase activity was detected for both DpgB and DpgD.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cells in the early stages of starvation-induced fruiting
 body development migrate in a highly organized periodic pattern of
 equispaced accumulations that move as traveling waves. Two sets of
 waves are observed moving in opposite directions with the same
 wavelength and speed. To learn how the behavior of individual cells
 contributes to the wave pattern, fluorescent cells were tracked within
 a rippling population. These cells exhibit at least three types of
 organized behavior. First, most cell movement occurs along the same
 axis as the rippling movement. Second, there is a high degree of cell
 alignment parallel to the direction of rippling, as indicated by the
 biased movement. Third, by controlling the reversal frequency, cell
 movement becomes periodic in a rippling field. The periodicity of
 individual cells matches the period of macroscopic rippling. This last
 behavior is unique to a rippling population and, on the basis of
 Myxococcus xanthus genetic data, we conclude that this
 periodicity is linked to the C signal, a nondiffusible cell
 contact-mediated signaling molecule. When two cells moving in opposite
 directions meet end to end, they transmit the C signal to each other
 and in response reverse their gliding direction. This model of
 traveling waves represents a new mode of biological pattern formation
 that depends on cell-contact interactions rather than reaction
 diffusion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Recent experiments have provided new quantitative measurements of
 the rippling phenomenon in fields of developing myxobacteria cells.
 These measurements have enabled us to develop a mathematical model for
 the ripple phenomenon on the basis of the biochemistry of the
 C-signaling system, whereby individuals signal by direct cell contact.
 The model quantitatively reproduces all of the experimental
 observations and illustrates how intracellular dynamics,
 contact-mediated intercellular communication, and cell motility can
 coordinate to produce collective behavior. This pattern of waves is
 qualitatively different from that observed in other social organisms,
 especially Dictyostelium discoideum, which
 depend on diffusible morphogens.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The slow rolling motion of leukocytes along the walls of
 blood vessels mediated by specific receptor-ligand adhesion is
 important in inflammation and occurs in postcapillary venules over a
 wide range of wall shear stresses and vessel diameters. The ability of
 hydrodynamic collisions between cells to induce capture of free-stream
 leukocytes to a selectin-bearing surface under shear flow was studied
 experimentally by using a cell-free assay. It was found that
 carbohydrate-coated spherical beads, representing model leukocytes,
 tend to attach to the adhesive wall 4–5 cell diameters up- or
 downstream of a slowly rolling or stationary adhesive bead. A key
 feature of such “hydrodynamic recruitment” is that only glancing,
 indirect collisions occurring close to the plane will result in
 downstream attachment. A direct numerical simulation of cell capture
 and rolling that includes multiparticle hydrodynamic interactions is
 shown to reproduce the observed behavior accurately. The theory
 predicts that hydrodynamic recruitment will occur in the absence of
 buoyancy effects and over a range of shear rates, suggesting that the
 mechanism may be important in vivo. This theory
 is supported by measurements of leukocyte capture in
 vivo using the hamster cheek pouch model.
DOC DONE!Abstract
DNA toroids produced by the condensation of λ phage DNA with
 hexammine cobalt (III) have been investigated by cryoelectron
 microscopy. Image resolution obtained by this technique has
 allowed unprecedented views of DNA packing within toroidal condensates.
 Toroids oriented coplanar with the microscope image plane exhibit
 circular fringes with a repeat spacing of 2.4 nm. For some toroids
 these fringes are observed around almost the entire circumference of
 the toroid. However, for most toroids well-defined fringes are limited
 to less than one-third of the total toroid circumference. Some toroids
 oriented perpendicular to the image plane reveal DNA polymers organized
 in a hexagonal close-packed lattice; however, for other toroids
 alternative packing arrangements are observed. To aid interpretation of
 electron micrographs, three-dimensional model toroids were
 generated with perfect hexagonal DNA packing throughout, as well as
 more physically realistic models that contain crossover points between
 DNA loops. Simulated transmission electron microscopy images of
 these model toroids in different orientations faithfully reproduce most
 features observed in cryoelectron micrographs of actual toroids.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The folding free energy landscape of the C-terminal β
 hairpin of protein G has been explored in this study with explicit
 solvent under periodic boundary condition and oplsaa force
 field. A highly parallel replica exchange method that combines
 molecular dynamics trajectories with a temperature exchange Monte Carlo
 process is used for sampling with the help of a new efficient algorithm
 P3ME/RESPA. The simulation results show that the hydrophobic core and
 the β strand hydrogen bond form at roughly the same time. The free
 energy landscape with respect to various reaction coordinates is found
 to be rugged at low temperatures and becomes a smooth funnel-like
 landscape at about 360 K. In contrast to some very recent studies, no
 significant helical content has been found in our simulation at all
 temperatures studied. The β hairpin population and hydrogen-bond
 probability are in reasonable agreement with the experiment at
 biological temperature, but both decay more slowly than the experiment
 with temperature.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Drug resistance has sharply limited the effectiveness of
 HIV-1 protease inhibitors in AIDS therapy. It is critically important
 to understand the basis of this resistance for designing new drugs. We
 have evaluated the free energy contribution of each residue in the HIV
 protease in binding to one of its substrates and to the five
 FDA-approved protease drugs. Analysis of these free energy profiles and
 the variability at each sequence position suggests: (i)
 single drug resistance mutations are likely to occur at not well
 conserved residues if they interact more favorably with drugs than with
 the substrate; and (ii) resistance-evading drugs should
 have a free energy profile similar to the substrate and interact most
 favorably with well conserved residues. We also propose an empirical
 parameter, called the free energy/variability value, which combines
 free energy calculation and sequence analysis to suggest possible drug
 resistance mutations on the protease. The free energy/variability
 value is defined as the product of one residue's contribution to the
 binding free energy and the variability of that residue. This parameter
 can assist in designing resistance-evading drugs for any target.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The transthyretin (TTR) amyloid diseases are of keen
 interest, because there are >80 mutations that cause, and a few
 mutations that suppress, disease. The V122I variant is the most common
 amyloidogenic mutation worldwide, producing familial amyloidotic
 cardiomyopathy primarily in individuals of African descent. The
 substitution shifts the tetramer-folded monomer equilibrium toward
 monomer (lowers tetramer stability) and lowers the kinetic barrier
 associated with rate-limiting tetramer dissociation (pH 7; relative to
 wild-type TTR) required for amyloid fibril formation. Fibril formation
 is also accelerated because the folded monomer resulting from the
 tetramer-folded monomer equilibrium rapidly undergoes partial
 denaturation and self-assembles into amyloid (in vitro)
 when subjected to a mild denaturation stress (e.g., pH 4.8).
 Incorporation of the V122I mutation into a folded monomeric variant of
 transthyretin reveals that this mutation does not destabilize the
 tertiary structure or alter the rate of amyloidogenesis relative to the
 wild-type monomer. The increase in the velocity of rate-limiting
 tetramer dissociation coupled with the lowered tetramer stability
 (increasing the mol fraction of folded monomer present at equilibrium)
 may explain why V122I confers an apparent absolute anatomic risk for
 cardiac amyloid deposition.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Structural studies have shown that the heads of the myosin motor
 molecule bind preferentially to “target zones” of favorably
 oriented sites on the helices of the actin filament. We present
 direct evidence for target zones from the interactions of a single
 myosin head with an actin filament held between two optically trapped
 beads. With compliant traps, thermal motions of the filament allow the
 fixed myosin-S1 to interact with at least two zones, observed as a
 bi-modal distribution of filament displacements due to myosin binding,
 whose spacing is near the 36-nm helix repeat distance. The number of
 binding events and the “apparent working stroke” (mean
 displacement with myosin bound), vary periodically as the filament is
 moved past the fixed myosin by displacing the traps; observed periods
 are close to 36 nm and the apparent stroke varies from 0–10 nm. We
 also observe a strong modulation at the 5.5-nm actin monomer repeat
 confirming that myosin interacts with a single strand and that the
 actin is not free to rotate. Each interaction can be assigned to an
 actin monomer and each active zone on the helix is made up of three
 actin monomers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The cytoplasm seems to provide an environment that favors
 conversion of the prion protein (PrP) to a form with the physical
 characteristics of the PrPSc conformation, which is
 associated with transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
 However, it is not clear whether PrP would ever exist in the cytoplasm
 under normal circumstances. We report that PrP accumulates in the
 cytoplasm when proteasome activity is compromised. The accumulated PrP
 seems to have been subjected to the normal proteolytic cleavage events
 associated with N- and C-terminal processing in the endoplasmic
 reticulum, suggesting that it arrives in the cytoplasm through
 retrograde transport. In the cytoplasm, PrP forms aggregates, often in
 association with Hsc70. With prolonged incubation, these aggregates
 accumulate in an “aggresome”-like state, surrounding the
 centrosome. A mutant (D177N), which is associated with a heritable and
 transmissible form of the spongiform encephalopathies, is less
 efficiently trafficked to the surface than wild-type PrP and
 accumulates in the cytoplasm even without proteasome inhibition. These
 results demonstrate that PrP can accumulate in the cytoplasm and is
 likely to enter this compartment through normal protein quality-control
 pathways. Its potential to accumulate in the cytoplasm has implications
 for pathogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Gαi3 is found both on the plasma membrane and on Golgi
 membranes. Calnuc, an EF hand protein, binds both Gαi3 and
 Ca2+ and is found both in the Golgi lumen and in the
 cytoplasm. To investigate whether Gαi3 binds calnuc in living cells
 and where this interaction takes place we performed fluorescence
 resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis between Gαi3 and calnuc in
 COS-7 cells expressing Gαi3-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and
 calnuc-cyan fluorescent protein (CFP). The tagged proteins have the
 same localization as the endogenous, nontagged proteins.
 When Gαi3-YFP and calnuc-CFP are coexpressed, a FRET signal is
 detected in the Golgi region, but no FRET signal is detected on the
 plasma membrane. FRET is also seen within the Golgi region when
 Gαi3 is coexpressed with cytosolic calnuc(ΔN2–25)-CFP lacking its
 signal sequence. No FRET signal is detected when Gαi3(ΔC12)-YFP
 lacking the calnuc-binding region is coexpressed with calnuc-CFP or
 when Gαi3-YFP and calnuc(ΔEF-1,2)-CFP, which is unable to bind
 Gαi3, are coexpressed. Gαi3(G2AC3A)-YFP lacking its lipid anchors
 is localized in the cytoplasm, and no FRET signal is detected when it
 is coexpressed with wild-type calnuc-CFP. These results indicate
 that cytosolic calnuc binds to Gαi3 on Golgi membranes in living
 cells and that Gαi3 must be anchored to the cytosolic surface of
 Golgi membranes via lipid anchors for the interaction to occur. Calnuc
 has the properties of a Ca2+ sensor protein capable of
 binding to and potentially regulating interactions of Gαi3 on Golgi
 membranes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Transgenic mice expressing MyrAkt from a proximal Lck promoter
 construct develop thymomas at an early age, whereas transgenic
 mice expressing constitutively active Lck-AktE40K develop
 primarily tumors of the peripheral lymphoid organs later in life. The
 thymus of 6- to 8-week-old MyrAkt transgenic mice is normal in size but
 contains fewer, larger cells than the thymus of nontransgenic control
 and AktE40K transgenic mice. Earlier studies had shown that cell size
 and cell cycle are coordinately regulated. On the basis of this
 finding, and our observations that the oncogenic potential of
 Akt correlates with its effect on cell size, we hypothesized that
 mechanisms aimed at maintaining the size of the thymus dissociate cell
 size and cell cycle regulation by blocking MyrAkt-promoted
 G1 progression and that failure of these mechanisms may
 promote cell proliferation resulting in an enlarged neoplastic thymus.
 To address this hypothesis, we examined the cell cycle distribution of
 freshly isolated and cultured thymocytes from transgenic and
 nontransgenic control mice. The results showed that although neither
 transgene alters cell cycle distribution in situ, the
 MyrAkt transgene promotes G1 progression in culture.
 Freshly isolated MyrAkt thymocytes express high levels of cyclins D2
 and E and cdk4 but lower than normal levels of cyclin D3 and cdk2.
 Cultured thymocytes from MyrAkt transgenic mice, on the other hand,
 express high levels of cyclin D3, suggesting that the hypothesized
 organ size control mechanisms may down-regulate the expression of this
 molecule. Primary tumor cells, similar to MyrAkt thymocytes in culture,
 express high levels of cyclin D3. These findings support the hypothesis
 that tumor induction is caused by the failure of organ size
 control mechanisms to down-regulate cyclin D3 and to block
 MyrAkt-promoted G1 progression.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic studies have identified mutations in key regulators of the
 Wnt/β-catenin pathway in a variety of cancers, most
 frequently in colon cancers. However, whether the pathway is activated
 in clinical cancer samples is not easily determined, and therefore it
 is useful to find markers that could be surrogates to show activation
 of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Gene expression profiles were
 analyzed in SW620, a colon cancer cell line in which β-catenin levels
 are stabilized as a consequence of truncated adenomatous polyposis coli
 and were compared with profiles of the same cells transfected with
 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. Treatment of cells with β-catenin
 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides resulted in a decrease in the levels of
 axin2 and human naked cuticle (hnkd)
 mRNAs. Interestingly, the proteins encoded by both of these mRNAs are
 known inhibitors of the β-catenin pathway. In 30 human cell lines
 derived from different origins, axin2 and
 hnkd were expressed only in human colon cancer cell
 lines that are known to have activating mutations in the
 Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Further, levels of both
 axin2 and hnkd mRNA were also found to be
 elevated in about 65% of laser microdissected cells from human colon
 tumors compared with laser microdissected cells of normal morphology
 from the same patient samples. The increased expression of
 axin2 and hnkd correlated with
 truncations in adenomatous polyposis coli in the same patient samples.
 These results reveal that it is possible to detect activation of a
 carcinogenic pathway in human cancer samples with specific markers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sequential processing of the amyloid precursor protein
 (APP) by β- and γ-secretases generates the Aβ peptide, a
 major constituent of the senile plaques observed in Alzheimer's
 disease. The cleavage by γ-secretase also results in the cytoplasmic
 release of a 59- or 57-residue-long C-terminal fragment (Cγ). This
 processing resembles regulated intramembrane proteolysis of
 transmembrane proteins such as Notch, where the released cytoplasmic
 fragments enter the nucleus and modulate gene expression. Here, we
 examined whether the analogous Cγ fragments of APP also exert effects
 in the nucleus. We find that ectopically expressed Cγ is present both
 in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. Interestingly, expression of
 Cγ59 causes disappearance of PAT1, a protein that interacts with the
 APP cytoplasmic domain, from the nucleus and induces its proteosomal
 degradation. Treatment of cells with lactacystin prevents PAT1
 degradation and retains its nuclear localization. By contrast, Cγ57,
 a minor product of γ-cleavage, is only marginally effective in PAT1
 degradation. Furthermore, Cγ59 but not Cγ57 potently represses
 retinoic acid-responsive gene expression. Thus, our studies provide the
 evidence that, as predicted by the regulated intramembrane
 proteolysis mechanism, Cγ seems to function in the nucleus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Granzyme B (GzmB) is a serine protease that is used by activated
 cytotoxic T lymphocytes to induce target cell apoptosis.
 Although GzmB directly cleaves the Bcl2 family member BID on target
 cell entry, Bid-deficient (and Bax, Bak
 doubly deficient) cells are susceptible to GzmB-induced death, even
 though they fail to release cytochrome c from
 mitochondria. GzmB still induces mitochondrial depolarization in
 Bax, Bak double knockout cells without cytochrome
 c release or opening of the permeability transition
 pore. Because GzmB cannot directly cause depolarization of isolated
 mitochondria, novel intracellular factor(s) may be required for GzmB to
 depolarize mitochondria in situ. GzmB therefore utilizes
 two distinct mitochondrial pathways to amplify the proapoptotic
 signal that it delivers to target cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Adeno-associated virus type 2 (AAV2) is a human parvovirus
 that has attracted attention as a vector for gene transfer. Replication
 and site-specific integration of the wild-type virus requires
 binding of the AAV2 Rep proteins to a cis-regulatory element named
 the Rep recognition sequence (RRS). RRS motifs are found within the
 cellular AAVS1 integration locus, the viral p5 promoter,
 and the inverted terminal repeats (ITRs). Here we report the
 design of a genetic screen based on the yeast one-hybrid assay to
 identify cellular RRS-binding proteins. We show that the human zinc
 finger 5 protein (ZF5) binds specifically to RRS motifs in
 vitro and in vivo. ZF5 is a highly conserved and
 ubiquitously expressed transcription factor that contains five
 C-terminal zinc fingers and an N-terminal POZ domain. Ectopic
 expression of ZF5 leads to an ITR-dependent repression of the
 autologous p5 promoter and reduces both AAV2 replication and the
 production of recombinant AAV2. By using deletion and substitution
 mutants we show that two different domains of ZF5 contribute to AAV2
 repression. Negative regulation of the p5 promoter requires the POZ
 domain, whereas viral replication is inhibited by the zinc finger
 domain, likely by competing with Rep for binding to the ITR.
 Identification and characterization of proteins that bind the ITR, the
 only viral genetic element retained in AAV2 vectors, will lead to new
 insights into the unique life cycle of AAV2 and will suggest
 improvements important for its application as a gene therapy vector.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The complexity and specificity of many forms of signal
 transduction are widely suspected to require spatial
 microcompartmentation of protein kinase and phosphatase activities, yet
 current relevant imaging methods such as phosphorylation-specific
 antibodies or fluorescent peptide substrates require fixation or
 microinjection and lack temporal or spatial resolution. We
 present a genetically encoded fluorescent reporter for protein kinase A
 (PKA) consisting of fusions of cyan fluorescent protein, a phosphoamino
 acid binding domain (14–3-3τ), a consensus substrate for PKA, and
 yellow fluorescent protein. cAMP elevations cause 25–50% changes in
 the ratios of yellow to cyan emissions in live cells caused by
 phosphorylation-induced changes in fluorescence resonance energy
 transfer. The reporter response was accelerated by tethering to PKA
 holoenzyme and slowed by localization to the nucleus. We
 demonstrate that deliberate redistribution of a substrate or
 colocalizing a substrate and PKA can modulate its susceptibility to
 phosphorylation by the kinase. The successful design of a fluorescent
 reporter of PKA activity and its application for studying
 compartmentalized and dynamic modulation of kinases lays a foundation
 for studying targeting and compartmentation of PKA and other kinases
 and phosphatases.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The complexity and specificity of many forms of signal
 transduction are widely believed to require spatial compartmentation of
 protein kinase and phosphatase activities, yet existing methods for
 measuring kinase activities in cells lack generality or spatial or
 temporal resolution. We present three genetically encoded fluorescent
 reporters for the tyrosine kinases Src, Abl, and epidermal growth
 factor (EGF) receptor. The reporters consist of fusions of cyan
 fluorescent protein (CFP), a phosphotyrosine binding domain, a
 consensus substrate for the relevant kinase, and yellow fluorescent
 protein (YFP). Stimulation of kinase activities in living cells with
 addition of growth factors causes 20–35% changes in the ratios of
 yellow to cyan emissions because of phosphorylation-induced changes in
 fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). Platelet-derived growth
 factor (PDGF) stimulated Abl activity most strongly in actin-rich
 membrane ruffles, supporting the importance of this tyrosine kinase in
 the regulation of cell morphology. These results establish a
 general strategy for nondestructively imaging dynamic protein tyrosine
 kinase activities with high spatial and temporal resolution in single
 living cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Existing methods for studying actin filament dynamics have allowed
 analysis only of bulk samples or individual filaments after treatment
 with the drug phalloidin, which perturbs filament dynamics.
 Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy with
 rhodamine-labeled actin allowed us to observe polymerization in real
 time, without phalloidin. Direct measurements of filament growth
 confirmed the rate constants measured by electron microscopy and
 established that rhodamine actin is a kinetically inactive tracer for
 imaging. In the presence of activated Arp2/3 complex, growing actin
 filaments form branches at random sites along their sides, rather than
 preferentially from their barbed ends.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cells in the early stages of starvation-induced fruiting
 body development migrate in a highly organized periodic pattern of
 equispaced accumulations that move as traveling waves. Two sets of
 waves are observed moving in opposite directions with the same
 wavelength and speed. To learn how the behavior of individual cells
 contributes to the wave pattern, fluorescent cells were tracked within
 a rippling population. These cells exhibit at least three types of
 organized behavior. First, most cell movement occurs along the same
 axis as the rippling movement. Second, there is a high degree of cell
 alignment parallel to the direction of rippling, as indicated by the
 biased movement. Third, by controlling the reversal frequency, cell
 movement becomes periodic in a rippling field. The periodicity of
 individual cells matches the period of macroscopic rippling. This last
 behavior is unique to a rippling population and, on the basis of
 Myxococcus xanthus genetic data, we conclude that this
 periodicity is linked to the C signal, a nondiffusible cell
 contact-mediated signaling molecule. When two cells moving in opposite
 directions meet end to end, they transmit the C signal to each other
 and in response reverse their gliding direction. This model of
 traveling waves represents a new mode of biological pattern formation
 that depends on cell-contact interactions rather than reaction
 diffusion.
DOC DONE!Abstract
neurogenin2 (ngn2) encodes a basic
 helix–loop–helix transcription factor and plays an important
 role in neurogenesis from migratory neural crest cells. Its role in
 retinal development is poorly understood. We observed that in the
 developing chick retina, ngn2 was expressed in a
 subpopulation of proliferating progenitor cells. Ectopic expression of
 ngn2 in nonneural, retinal pigment epithelial cell
 culture triggered de novo generation of cells
 that expressed neural-specific markers and exhibited neuronal
 morphologies. Further molecular and morphological analyses showed that
 the main products of the induced neurogenesis were cells resembling
 young photoreceptor cells and cells resembling retinal ganglion cells.
 The generation of multiple cell types suggests that ngn2
 induces various retinal pathways. Thus, unlike in the peripheral
 nervous system where ngn2 specifies one type of sensory
 neuron, ngn2 in the retina is likely involved in a
 common step leading to different cellular pathways. Our finding that
 ngn2 can instruct nonneural retinal pigment epithelial
 cells to differentiate toward retinal neurons demonstrates one possible
 way to induce de novo retinal neurogenesis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 signaling pathway
 promotes growth in invertebrates and vertebrates by increasing the
 levels of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate through the
 activation of p110 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Two key effectors of
 this pathway are the phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1)
 and Akt/PKB. Although genetic analysis in
 Caenorhabditis elegans has implicated
 Akt as the only relevant PDK1 substrate, cell culture studies have
 suggested that PDK1 has additional targets. Here we show that, in
 Drosophila, dPDK1 controls cellular and organism growth
 by activating dAkt and S6 kinase, dS6K. Furthermore,
 dPDK1 genetically interacts with dRSK but
 not with dPKN, encoding two substrates of PDK1 in
 vitro. Thus, the results suggest that dPDK1 is required for
 dRSK but not dPKN activation and that it regulates insulin-mediated
 growth through two main effector branches, dAkt and dS6K.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We report a previously unrecognized complexity to the ecology of
 rabies in wildlife. Rabies-specific virus-neutralizing
 antibodies in spotted hyenas, the most numerous large carnivore in the
 Serengeti ecosystem (Tanzania, East Africa), revealed a high frequency
 of exposure of 37.0% to rabies virus, and reverse transcriptase (RT)
 PCR demonstrated rabies RNA in 13.0% of hyenas. Despite this high
 frequency, exposure neither caused symptomatic rabies nor
 decreased survival among members of hyena social groups monitored for 9
 to13 years. Repeated, intermittent presence of virus in saliva of
 45.5% of seropositive hyenas indicated a “carrier” state. Rabies
 isolates from Serengeti hyenas differed significantly (8.5% sequence
 divergence) from those isolated from other Serengeti carnivores,
 suggesting that at least two separate strains circulate within the
 Serengeti carnivore community. This finding is consistent with the fact
 that exposure in hyenas increased with age and social status, following
 a pattern predicted by intraspecific age and social-status-dependent
 oral and bite contact rates. High seroprevalence of rabies, low basic
 reproductive rate of the virus (R0) of 1.9,
 a carrier state, and the absence of symptomatic rabies in a carnivore
 in an ecosystem with multihost and multistrain maintenance has not been
 previously demonstrated for rabies. Because of the substantial
 differences between the hyena viral isolates and those from canids and
 viverrids in the Serengeti, it is unlikely that spotted hyenas were the
 source of rabies virus that killed several African wild dog packs in
 the Serengeti ecosystem in the 1990s.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The evolution of the Metazoa from protozoans is one of the
 major milestones in life's history. The genetic and developmental
 events involved in this evolutionary transition are unknown but may
 have involved the evolution of genes required for signaling and gene
 regulation in metazoans. The genome of animal ancestors may be
 reconstructed by identification of animal genes that are shared with
 related eukaryotes, particularly those that share a more recent
 ancestry and cell biology with animals. The choanoflagellates have long
 been suspected to be closer relatives of animals than are fungi, the
 closest outgroup of animals for which comparative genomic information
 is available. Phylogenetic analyses of choanoflagellate and animal
 relationships based on small subunit rDNA sequence, however,
 have yielded ambiguous and conflicting results. We find that analyses
 of four conserved proteins from a unicellular choanoflagellate,
 Monosiga brevicollis, provide robust support for a close
 relationship between choanoflagellates and Metazoa, suggesting that
 comparison of the complement of expressed genes from choanoflagellates
 and animals may be informative concerning the early evolution of
 metazoan genomes. We have discovered in M. brevicollis
 the first receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), to our knowledge,
 identified outside of the Metazoa, MBRTK1. The architecture of MBRTK1,
 which includes multiple extracellular ligand-binding domains, resembles
 that of RTKs in sponges and humans and suggests the ability to receive
 and transduce signals. Thus, choanoflagellates express genes involved
 in animal development that are not found in other eukaryotes and that
 may be linked to the origin of the Metazoa.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The relapsing fever spirochete, Borrelia hermsii,
 escapes immune selection by alternating expression of surface
 lipoprotein alleles. The switch results from a duplicative
 transposition of one of several surface lipoprotein-encoding nucleotide
 sequences into the singular expression site. These nucleotide sequences
 constitute a large gene family whose diversity originated, in
 some cases, before the major divergences of Borrelia
 species. We have examined the B. hermsii vsp subfamily
 of alleles, which are carried on linear plasmids within each cell and
 maintained in several diverse copies as an antigenic archive. Each
 encodes a distinct serotype-specific protein. We sequenced more than
 90% of the alleles within a single strain—B. hermsii
 strain HS1. A preponderance of allelic mosaicism suggests that
 intragenic recombination, coupled with selection imposed by host immune
 response, has driven diversification of the archived ensemble of
 vsp alleles. The recombinational diversification of
 vsp alleles generates change in the associated serotypes
 of the magnitude (30–40% amino acid differentiation) necessary for
 overcoming cross-reactivity of neutralizing antibodies. We conclude
 that evolution of vsp has occurred by punctuated
 occurrence of allelic differentiation, rather than by gradual selection
 of incremental point mutations that do not meet the threshold for
 antigenic diversity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is clinically
 heterogeneous. Apart from an association with ionizing
 radiation, the etiology and molecular biology of PTC is poorly
 understood. We used oligo-based DNA arrays to study the expression
 profiles of eight matched pairs of normal thyroid and PTC tissues.
 Additional PTC tumors and other tissues were studied by reverse
 transcriptase–PCR and immunohistochemistry. The PTCs showed concordant
 expression of many genes and distinct clustered profiles. Genes with
 increased expression in PTC included many encoding adhesion and
 extracellular matrix proteins. Expression was increased in 8/8 tumors
 for 24 genes and in 7/8 tumors for 22 genes. Among these genes were
 several previously known to be overexpressed in PTC, such as
 MET, LGALS3, KRT19,
 DPP4, MDK, TIMP1, and
 FN1. The numerous additional genes include
 CITED1, CHI3L1, ODZ1,
 N33, SFTPB, and SCEL.
 Reverse transcriptase–PCR showed high expression of
 CITED1, CHI3L1, ODZ1, and
 SCEL in 6/6 additional PTCs. Immunohistochemical
 analysis detected CITED1 and SFTPB in 49/52 and 39/52 PTCs,
 respectively, but not in follicular thyroid carcinoma and normal
 thyroid tissue. Genes underexpressed in PTC included tumor suppressors,
 thyroid function-related proteins, and fatty acid binding proteins.
 Expression was decreased in 7/8 tumors for eight genes and decreased
 in 6/8 tumors for 19 genes. We conclude that, despite its clinical
 heterogeneity, PTC is characterized by consistent and specific
 molecular changes. These findings reveal clues to the molecular
 pathways involved in PTC and may provide biomarkers for clinical use.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In Drosophila, enhancer trap strategies allow rapid
 access to expression patterns, molecular data, and mutations in trapped
 genes. However, they do not give any information at the protein
 level, e.g., about the protein subcellular localization. Using the
 green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a mobile artificial exon carried by
 a transposable P-element, we have developed a protein trap system. We
 screened for individual flies, in which GFP tags full-length
 endogenous proteins expressed from their
 endogenous locus, allowing us to observe their cellular and
 subcellular distribution. GFP fusions are targeted to virtually any
 compartment of the cell. In the case of insertions in previously known
 genes, we observe that the subcellular localization of the fusion
 protein corresponds to the described distribution of the
 endogenous protein. The artificial GFP exon does not
 disturb upstream and downstream splicing events. Many insertions
 correspond to genes not predicted by the Drosophila
 Genome Project. Our results show the feasibility of a protein trap in
 Drosophila. GFP reveals in real time the dynamics of
 protein's distribution in the whole, live organism and provides useful
 markers for a number of cellular structures and compartments.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The bacterium Helicobacter pylori colonizes the
 gastric mucosa of half of the human population, resulting in chronic
 gastritis, ulcers, and cancer. We sequenced ten gene fragments from
 pairs of strains isolated sequentially at a mean interval of 1.8 years
 from 26 individuals. Several isolates had acquired small mosaic
 segments from other H. pylori or point mutations. The
 maximal mutation rate, the import size, and the frequency of
 recombination were calculated by using a Bayesian model. The
 calculations indicate that the last common ancestor of H.
 pylori existed at least 2,500–11,000 years ago. Imported
 mosaics have a median size of 417 bp, much smaller than for other
 bacteria, and recombination occurs frequently (60 imports spanning
 25,000 bp per genome per year). Thus, the panmictic population
 structure of H. pylori results from very frequent
 recombination during mixed colonization by unrelated strains.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Chromosome 3 allele loss in preinvasive bronchial
 abnormalities and carcinogen-exposed, histologically normal
 bronchial epithelium indicates that it is an early, possibly the first,
 somatic genetic change in lung tumor development. Candidate tumor
 suppressor genes have been isolated from within distinct 3p regions
 implicated by heterozygous and homozygous allele loss. We have proposed
 that DUTT1, nested within homozygously deleted regions
 at 3p12–13, is the tumor suppressor gene that deletion-mapping and
 tumor suppression assays indicate is located in proximal 3p. The same
 gene, ROBO1 (accession number AF040990), was
 independently isolated as the human homologue of the
 Drosophila gene, Roundabout. The gene,
 coding for a receptor with a domain structure of the neural-cell
 adhesion molecule family, is widely expressed and has been
 implicated in the guidance and migration of axons, myoblasts, and
 leukocytes in vertebrates. A deleted form of the gene, which mimics a
 naturally occurring, tumor-associated human homozygous deletion of exon
 2 of DUTT1/ROBO1, was introduced into
 the mouse germ line. Mice homozygous for this targeted mutation, which
 eliminates the first Ig domain of Dutt1/Robo1, frequently die
 at birth of respiratory failure because of delayed lung maturation.
 Lungs from these mice have reduced air spaces and increased mesenchyme,
 features that are present some days before birth. Survivors acquire
 extensive bronchial epithelial abnormalities including hyperplasia,
 providing evidence of a functional relationship between a 3p gene and
 the development of bronchial abnormalities associated with early lung
 cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The Drosophila Seven in absentia
 (Sina) gene product originally was described as a
 protein that controls cell fate decisions during eye development. Its
 mammalian homolog, Siah-1, recently was found to be involved in
 p53-dependent and -independent pathways of apoptosis and
 G1 arrest. We report that Siah-1 interacts directly with
 and promotes the degradation of the cell fate regulator Numb.
 Siah-1-mediated Numb degradation leads to redistribution of
 endogenous cell-surface Notch to the cytoplasm and nucleus
 and to augmented Notch-regulated transcriptional activity. These data
 imply that through its ability to target Numb for degradation, Siah-1
 can act as a key regulator of Numb-related activities, including Notch
 signaling.
DOC DONE!Abstract
After screening a bacterial artificial chromosome of human genomic
 DNA library with human HS-40, ζ-, α-, and θ-globin probes, a
 110-kb clone bearing the whole human α-globin gene cluster was
 obtained and rare restriction endonuclease mapping was performed. The
 bacterial artificial chromosome DNA was isolated, and transgenic
 mice were generated. Three founders were detected from 35 newborn mice.
 The copy numbers were 1, 2, and 2, and the expression of human
 α-globin genes in various tissues at different developmental stages
 in the transgenic mice was assayed. The human α-globin mRNA can be
 detected in bone marrow, kidney, liver, brain, but not in muscle,
 testis, or thymus. The human ζ-globin genes were switched off, and
 the α-globin genes were switched at day 11.5 in mouse embryo,
 indicating that developmental stage-specific expression of the α-like
 globin genes was properly regulated. The human α-globin mRNA ranged
 between 17–68% of the endogenous mouse α-globin,
 suggesting that the expression of human α-globin genes is integration
 site-dependent in transgenic mice. The ratio of human α2-
 and α1-globin gene expression in adult transgenic mouse
 is about 2.5:1 similar to the expression in human.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Prokaryotic plasmids and chromosomes encode partitioning
 (par) loci that segregate DNA to daughter cells before
 cell division. Recent database analyses showed that almost all known
 par loci encode an ATPase and a DNA-binding protein, and
 one or more cis-acting regions where the proteins act. All
 par-encoded ATPases belong to one of two protein
 superfamilies, Walker-type and actin-like ATPases. This property
 was recently used to divide par loci into Types I and II
 loci. We show here that the Escherichia coli
 virulence factor pB171 encodes a double par locus that
 consists of one Type I and one Type II locus. Separately, each locus
 stabilized a test-plasmid efficiently. Together, the two loci mediated
 even more efficient plasmid stabilization. The par loci
 have a unique genetic organization in that they share a common central
 region at which the two different DNA-binding proteins probably act.
 Interestingly, a fusion protein consisting of the Walker-type ParA
 ATPase and Gfp was functional and oscillated in nucleoid regions
 on a time scale of minutes. ParA-green fluorescent protein (Gfp)
 oscillation depended on both ParB and parC but was
 independent of minCDE. Point mutations in the Walker A
 box motif simultaneously abolished plasmid stabilization and ParA-Gfp
 oscillation. These observations raise the possibility that ParA
 oscillation is prerequisite for active plasmid segregation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) is
 critical for DNA repair via the nonhomologous end joining
 pathway. Previously, it was reported that bone marrow cells and
 spontaneously transformed fibroblasts from SCID (severe combined
 immunodeficiency) mice have defects in telomere maintenance. The
 genetically defective SCID mouse arose spontaneously from its parental
 strain CB17. One known genomic alteration in SCID mice is a truncation
 of the extreme carboxyl terminus of DNA-PKcs, but other as yet
 unidentified alterations may also exist. We have used a defined system,
 the DNA-PKcs knockout mouse, to investigate specifically the role
 DNA-PKcs specifically plays in telomere maintenance. We report that
 primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and primary cultured kidney
 cells from 6–8 month-old DNA-PKcs-deficient mice accumulate a large
 number of telomere fusions, yet still retain wild-type telomere length.
 Thus, the phenotype of this defect separates the two-telomere related
 phenotypes, capping, and length maintenance. DNA-PKcs-deficient MEFs
 also exhibit elevated levels of chromosome fragments and breaks, which
 correlate with increased telomere fusions. Based on the high levels of
 telomere fusions observed in DNA-PKcs deficient cells, we conclude that
 DNA-PKcs plays an important capping role at the mammalian telomere.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most
 common cancers worldwide. In this work, we report on a comprehensive
 characterization of gene expression profiles of hepatitis B
 virus-positive HCC through the generation of a large set of 5′-read
 expressed sequence tag (EST) clusters (11,065 in total) from HCC and
 noncancerous liver samples, which then were applied to a cDNA
 microarray system containing 12,393 genes/ESTs and to comparison with
 a public database. The commercial cDNA microarray, which contains 1,176
 known genes related to oncogenesis, was used also for profiling gene
 expression. Integrated data from the above approaches identified 2,253
 genes/ESTs as candidates with differential expression. A number of
 genes related to oncogenesis and hepatic function/differentiation
 were selected for further semiquantitative reverse transcriptase–PCR
 analysis in 29 paired HCC/noncancerous liver samples. Many genes
 involved in cell cycle regulation such as cyclins, cyclin-dependent
 kinases, and cell cycle negative regulators were deregulated in most
 patients with HCC. Aberrant expression of the Wnt-β-catenin pathway
 and enzymes for DNA replication also could contribute to the
 pathogenesis of HCC. The alteration of transcription levels was noted
 in a large number of genes implicated in metabolism, whereas a profile
 change of others might represent a status of dedifferentiation of the
 malignant hepatocytes, both considered as potential markers of
 diagnostic value. Notably, the altered transcriptome profiles in HCC
 could be correlated to a number of chromosome regions with
 amplification or loss of heterozygosity, providing one of the
 underlying causes of the transcription anomaly of HCC.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor β (TRβ) gene
 result in resistance to thyroid hormone. However, it is unknown
 whether mutations in the TRα gene could lead to a similar disease. To
 address this question, we prepared mutant mice by targeting mutant
 thyroid hormone receptor kindred PV (PV) mutation to the TRα gene
 locus by means of homologous recombination (TRα1PV mice). The PV
 mutation was derived from a patient with severe resistance to thyroid
 hormone that has a frameshift of the C-terminal 14 aa of TRβ1. We
 knocked in the same PV mutation to the corresponding TRα gene locus
 to compare the phenotypes of TRα1PV/+ mice with those of
 TRβPV/+ mice. TRα1PV/+ mice were viable,
 indicating that the mutation of the TRα gene is not embryonic lethal.
 In drastic contrast to the TRβPV/+ mice, which do not
 exhibit a growth abnormality, TRα1PV/+ mice were dwarfs.
 These dwarfs exhibited increased mortality and reduced fertility. In
 contrast to TRβPV/+ mice, which have a hyperactive
 thyroid, TRα1PV/+ mice exhibited mild thyroid failure.
 The in vivo pattern of abnormal regulation of T3 target
 genes in TRα1PV/+ mice was unique from those of
 TRβPV/+ mice. The distinct phenotypes exhibited by
 TRα1PV/+ and TRβPV/+ mice indicate that the
 in vivo functions of TR mutants are isoform-dependent.
 The TRα1PV/+ mice may be used as a tool to uncover human
 diseases associated with mutations in the TRα gene and, furthermore,
 to understand the molecular mechanisms by which TR isoforms exert their
 biological activities.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Germ-line (micronuclear) genes in hypotrichous ciliates are
 interrupted by numerous, short, noncoding, AT-rich segments called
 internal eliminated segments, or IESs. IESs divide a gene into
 macronuclear destined segments, or MDSs. IESs are excised from
 micronuclear genes, and the MDSs are spliced when a micronuclear genome
 is processed into a macronuclear genome after cell mating. In the
 micronuclear version of the actin I gene intramolecular recombination
 between IESs during evolution has put MDSs into a scrambled disorder in
 some but not all hypotrichs. Studies using rDNA sequences to define
 phylogenetic relationships among eight hypotrichs suggests that
 evolution of the micronuclear actin I gene proceeds by successive
 addition of IESs in earlier diverging species, without MDS scrambling.
 Continued addition of IESs and recombination among IESs in later
 diverging species produced actin I genes with scrambled MDSs.
 Subsequent to MDS scrambling, additional IESs were inserted into the
 more recently evolved species. Thus, IES insertions and gene scrambling
 occur in a progressive manner during species evolution to produce
 micronuclear actin I genes of increasing structural complexity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Genetic or epigenetic inactivation of one of the DNA mismatch
 repair (MMR) genes in tumor precursor cells causes a profound
 mutator phenotype, known as the microsatellite mutator phenotype (MMP).
 This mutator phenotype induces mutations not only in cancer genes that
 drive tumorigenesis but also in other DNA repair genes. The functional
 significance of these successive DNA repair gene mutations, however,
 has not been substantiated. Here we show that the concomitant
 inactivation of two DNA MMR genes (hMLH1 and
 hMSH6) increases the mutator phenotype. We isolated cell
 clones of the SW48 MMP-positive cell line with either active or
 inactive hMSH6. All of these clones lacked expression of
 hMLH1 because of promoter hypermethylation. Compared
 with inactivation of hMLH1 alone, the additional
 inactivation of hMSH6 produced a higher mutation rate
 and a different spectrum of mutations in the endogenous
 hprt gene. These results confirm our model that the
 mutator phenotype can increase during tumorigenesis by the consecutive
 inactivation of different members of the DNA MMR system. Thus, a
 stronger mutator phenotype accelerates the accumulation of mutations in
 target cancer genes, which, in turn, speeds up tumor progression. The
 results of this study also have significant impact on our understanding
 of the mechanism of DNA MMR.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sir2p is an NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase
 required for chromatin-dependent silencing in yeast. In a cell-based
 screen for inhibitors of Sir2p, we identified a compound, splitomicin,
 that creates a conditional phenocopy of a sir2
 deletion mutant in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cells grown
 in the presence of the drug have silencing defects at telomeres, silent
 mating-type loci, and the ribosomal DNA. In addition, whole genome
 microarray experiments show that splitomicin selectively inhibits
 Sir2p. In vitro, splitomicin inhibits
 NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase activity (HDA) of the
 Sir2 protein. Mutations in SIR2 that confer
 resistance to the drug map to the likely acetylated histone tail
 binding domain of the protein. By using splitomicin as a chemical
 genetic probe, we demonstrate that continuous HDA of Sir2p is required
 for maintaining a silenced state in nondividing cells.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Oligonucleotide DNA microarrays were used for a genome-wide
 analysis of immune-challenged Drosophila infected with
 Gram-positive or Gram-negative bacteria, or with fungi. Aside from the
 expression of an established set of immune defense genes, a significant
 number of previously unseen immune-induced genes were found.
 Genes of particular interest include corin- and
 Stubble-like genes, both of which have a type II
 transmembrane domain; easter- and
 snake-like genes, which may fulfil the roles of
 easter and snake in the Toll pathway; and
 a masquerade-like gene, potentially involved in enzyme
 regulation. The microarray data has also helped to greatly reduce the
 number of target genes in large gene groups, such as the proteases,
 helping to direct the choices for future mutant studies. Many of the
 up-regulated genes fit into the current conceptual framework of host
 defense, whereas others, including the substantial number of genes with
 unknown functions, offer new avenues for research.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Little is known about the mechanism by which IFNs inhibit human
 cytomegalovirus (HCMV) replication. Indeed, infection of fibroblasts
 with HCMV initiates the expression of a subset of type I IFN-inducible
 genes whose role in the infectious process is unclear. We describe here
 the identification of a cytoplasmic antiviral protein that is
 induced by IFNs, by HCMV infection, and by the HCMV envelope protein,
 glycoprotein B (gB). Stable expression of the protein in fibroblasts
 inhibits productive HCMV infection, down-regulating several HCMV
 structural proteins (gB, pp28, and pp65) known to be indispensable for
 viral assembly and maturation. We have named the protein viperin (for
 virus inhibitory protein,
 endoplasmic reticulum-associated,
 interferon-inducible). HCMV infection causes the
 redistribution of the induced viperin from its normal endoplasmic
 reticulum association, first to the Golgi apparatus and then to
 cytoplasmic vacuoles containing gB and pp28. Expression before HCMV
 infection reduces viperin redistribution from the endoplasmic reticulum
 to the Golgi apparatus and prevents vacuolar localization, perhaps
 reflecting the mechanism used by HCMV to evade the antiviral function.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Sex steroids negatively regulate B lymphopoiesis in adult mice.
 Paradoxically, lymphocytes arise during fetal life, when estrogen
 levels are high and maternal lymphopoiesis is suppressed. Here
 we demonstrate that embryonic B lymphopoiesis was unaffected by
 estrogen, but sensitive to glucocorticoids. Both fetal and adult
 precursors contained glucocorticoid receptor transcripts, but only
 adult precursors expressed estrogen receptor α and β together with
 the androgen receptor. Fetal hematopoietic cells did not efficiently
 acquire functional estrogen receptors after transplantation to
 irradiated adult mice. Sex steroid receptors were also expressed in a
 stage- and developmental age-dependent fashion in human precursors. A
 developmental switch in responsiveness of hematopoietic cells to sex
 steroids may be essential for formation of the immune system.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Differentiation of naive CD4+ T cells into
 IFN-γ-producing T helper 1 (TH1) cells is pivotal
 for protective immune responses against intracellular pathogens. T-bet,
 a recently discovered member of the T-box transcription factor family,
 has been reported to play a critical role in this process, promoting
 IFN-γ production. Although terminal TH1 differentiation
 occurs over days, we now show that challenge of mice with a
 prototypical TH1-inducing stimulus, Toxoplasma
 gondii soluble extract, rapidly induced IFN-γ and T-bet;
 T-bet induction was substantially lower in IFN-γ-deficient mice.
 Naive T cells expressed little T-bet, but this transcription factor was
 induced markedly by the combination of IFN-γ and cognate antigen.
 Human myeloid antigen-presenting cells showed T-bet induction after
 IFN-γ stimulation alone, and this induction was antagonized by IL-4
 and granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Although
 T-bet was induced rapidly and directly by IFN-γ, it was not induced
 by IFN-α, lipopolysaccharide, or IL-1, indicating that this action of
 IFN-γ was specific. Moreover, T-bet induction was dependent on Stat1
 but not Stat4. These data argue for a model in which IFN-γ gene
 regulation involves an autocrine loop, whereby the cytokine regulates a
 transcription factor that promotes its own production. These findings
 substantially alter the current view of T-bet in IFN-γ regulation and
 promotion of cell-mediated immune responses.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Thioredoxin (Trx), a redox enzyme with a conserved
 active site (Cys-32–Gly–Pro–Cys-35), is induced and secreted into
 circulation in response to inflammation. Studies here demonstrate that
 elevating Trx levels in circulation either by i.v. injection of
 recombinant Trx or stimulating Trx release in Trx-transgenic mice
 dramatically blocks lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated neutrophil
 migration in the murine air pouch chemotaxis model. Furthermore, we
 show that leukocyte recruitment induced by the murine chemokines
 KC/GROα, RANTES (regulated upon activation, normal T cell
 expressed and secreted), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1)
 is suppressed also in Trx-transgenic mice. Addressing the mechanism
 responsible for this suppression, we show that circulating Trx blocks
 (i) the LPS-stimulated in vitro
 activation of neutrophil p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase,
 (ii) the normal down-regulation of CD62L on neutrophils
 migrating into the LPS-stimulated air pouch, and (iii)
 the in vitro adhesion of LPS-activated neutrophils on
 endothelial cells. However, as we also show, Trx does not alter the
 expression of endothelial cell adhesion molecules (intercellular
 adhesion molecule-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, CD62P, and
 CD62E) within 3 h. Collectively, these findings indicate that
 elevated levels of circulating Trx interfere with chemotaxis by acting
 directly on neutrophils. We discuss these findings in the context of
 recent studies reporting beneficial effects of acutely elevated Trx in
 ischemic injury and negative effects associated with chronically
 elevated Trx in HIV disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The optimal treatment of patients with cancer depends on
 establishing accurate diagnoses by using a complex combination of
 clinical and histopathological data. In some instances, this task is
 difficult or impossible because of atypical clinical presentation or
 histopathology. To determine whether the diagnosis of multiple common
 adult malignancies could be achieved purely by molecular
 classification, we subjected 218 tumor samples, spanning 14
 common tumor types, and 90 normal tissue samples to oligonucleotide
 microarray gene expression analysis. The expression levels of 16,063
 genes and expressed sequence tags were used to evaluate the accuracy of
 a multiclass classifier based on a support vector machine algorithm.
 Overall classification accuracy was 78%, far exceeding the accuracy of
 random classification (9%). Poorly differentiated cancers resulted in
 low-confidence predictions and could not be accurately classified
 according to their tissue of origin, indicating that they are
 molecularly distinct entities with dramatically different gene
 expression patterns compared with their well differentiated
 counterparts. Taken together, these results demonstrate the feasibility
 of accurate, multiclass molecular cancer classification and suggest a
 strategy for future clinical implementation of molecular cancer
 diagnostics.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Current chemotherapeutic approaches for cancer are in part limited
 by the inability of drugs to destroy neoplastic cells within poorly
 vascularized compartments of tumors. We have here systematically
 assessed anaerobic bacteria for their capacity to grow expansively
 within avascular compartments of transplanted tumors. Among 26
 different strains tested, one (Clostridium novyi)
 appeared particularly promising. We created a strain of C.
 novyi devoid of its lethal toxin (C. novyi-NT)
 and showed that intravenously injected C. novyi-NT
 spores germinated within the avascular regions of tumors in mice and
 destroyed surrounding viable tumor cells. When C.
 novyi-NT spores were administered together with conventional
 chemotherapeutic drugs, extensive hemorrhagic necrosis of tumors often
 developed within 24 h, resulting in significant and prolonged
 antitumor effects. This strategy, called combination
 bacteriolytic therapy
 (COBALT), has the potential to add a new dimension to the treatment of
 cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Although continuous highly active antiretroviral therapy
 (HAART) is effective for many HIV-infected patients, it can be toxic
 and prohibitive in cost. By decreasing the total amount of time
 patients receive medications, intermittent HAART could reduce toxicity
 and cost. Therefore, we initiated a pilot study in which 10
 HIV-infected individuals receiving effective therapy that resulted in
 levels of HIV RNA <50 copies per ml of plasma and CD4+ T
 cell counts >300 cells per mm3 of whole blood received
 repeated cycles of 7 days on HAART followed by 7 days off of HAART.
 Patients maintained suppression of plasma viremia for 32–68 weeks.
 There was no significant increase in HIV proviral DNA or
 replication-competent HIV in peripheral CD4+ T cells or HIV
 RNA in peripheral blood or lymph node mononuclear cells. There was no
 significant change in CD4+ T cell counts, no significant
 increase in CD4+ or CD8+ T cells expressing
 activation markers or producing IFN-γ in response to HIV, no increase
 in CD4+ T cell proliferation to p24 antigen, and no
 evidence for the development of resistance to HAART medications. There
 was a significant decrease in serum cholesterol and triglyceride
 levels. Thus, in this proof-of-concept study, short-cycle intermittent
 HAART maintained suppression of plasma viremia as well as HIV
 replication in reservoir sites while preserving CD4+ T cell
 counts. In addition, there was a decrease in serum cholesterol and
 triglyceride levels. Intermittent therapy may be an important strategy
 to reduce cost and toxicity for HIV-infected individuals.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The intrinsic rate of viral replication in HIV-infected patients
 treated with antiretroviral combination therapy is estimated by using a
 mathematical model of viral dynamics. This intrinsic replication
 is found to be episodic, varying considerably in quantity between
 patients (even among those achieving long-term undetectable levels of
 viremia) and is always reduced by increasing the potency of the
 antiviral drug regimen. The analysis reveals that even in conditions of
 perfect patient adherence and drug penetration a substantial level of
 residual viral replication is expected. The rate of evolution in the
 viral quasispecies, and thus also the probability of new drug-resistant
 viral strains being created, is proportional to the total amount of
 residual viral replication. Under most circumstances, the viral
 population continues to turn over rapidly during therapy, albeit at a
 much reduced level.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The myelin-associated protein Nogo-A has received more research
 attention than any other inhibitor of axonal regeneration in the
 injured central nervous system (CNS). Circumvention of its
 inhibitory effect, by using antibodies specific to Nogo-A, has been
 shown to promote axonal regrowth. Studies in our laboratory have
 demonstrated that active or passive immunization of CNS-injured rats or
 mice with myelin-associated peptides induces a T-cell-mediated
 protective autoimmune response, which promotes recovery by reducing
 posttraumatic degeneration. Here, we show that neuronal degeneration
 after incomplete spinal-cord contusion in rats was substantially
 reduced, and hence recovery was significantly promoted, by
 posttraumatic immunization with p472, a peptide derived from Nogo-A.
 The observed effect seemed to be mediated by T cells and could be
 reproduced by passive transfer of a T cell line directed against the
 Nogo-A peptide. Thus, it seems that after incomplete spinal-cord
 injury, immunization with a variety of myelin-associated peptides,
 including those derived from Nogo-A, can be used to evoke a T
 cell-mediated response that promotes recovery. The choice of peptide(s)
 for clinical treatment of spinal-cord injuries should be based on
 safety considerations; in particular, the likelihood that the chosen
 peptide will not cause an autoimmune disease or interfere with
 essential functions of this peptide or other proteins. From a
 therapeutic point of view, the fact that the active cellular agents are
 T cells rather than antibodies is an advantage, as T cell production
 commences within the time window required for a protective effect after
 spinal-cord injury, whereas antibody production takes longer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Polyglutamine diseases include at least nine
 neurodegenerative disorders, each caused by a CAG repeat expansion in a
 different gene. Accumulation of mutant polyglutamine-containing
 proteins occurs in patients, and evidence from cell culture and animal
 experiments suggests the nucleus as a site of pathogenesis. To
 understand the consequences of nuclear accumulation, we created a cell
 culture system with nuclear-targeted polyglutamine. In our system, cell
 death can be mitigated by overexpression of full-length cAMP response
 element binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) or its
 amino-terminal portion alone. CBP is one of several histone
 acetyltransferases sequestered by polyglutamine inclusions. We found
 histone acetylation to be reduced in cells expressing mutant
 polyglutamine. Reversal of this hypoacetylation, which can be achieved
 either by overexpression of CBP or its amino terminus or by treatment
 with deacetylase inhibitors, reduced cell loss. These findings suggest
 that nuclear accumulation of polyglutamine can lead to altered protein
 acetylation in neurons and indicate a novel therapeutic strategy for
 polyglutamine disease.
DOC DONE!Abstract
α-Tocopherol transfer protein (α-TTP) maintains
 the concentration of serum α-tocopherol (vitamin E), one of the most
 potent fat-soluble antioxidants, by facilitating α-tocopherol export
 from the liver. Mutations of the α-TTP gene are linked to
 ataxia with isolated vitamin E deficiency (AVED). We produced a model
 mouse of AVED by deleting the α-TTP gene, which showed ataxia and
 retinal degeneration after 1 year of age. Because the brain α-TTP
 functions in maintaining α-tocopherol levels in the brain,
 α-tocopherol was completely depleted in the
 α-TTP−/− mouse brain, and the neurological phenotype
 of α-TTP−/− mice is much more severe than that of
 wild-type mice when maintained on an α-tocopherol-deficient diet.
 Lipid peroxidation in α-TTP−/− mice brains showed a
 significant increase, especially in degenerating neurons.
 α-Tocopherol supplementation suppressed lipid peroxidation and almost
 completely prevented the development of neurological symptoms. This
 therapy almost completely corrects the abnormalities in a mouse model
 of human neurodegenerative disease. Moreover,
 α-TTP−/− mice may prove to be excellent animal models
 of delayed onset, slowly progressive neuronal degeneration caused by
 chronic oxidative stress.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The coxsackievirus and adenovirus receptor (CAR) mediates viral
 attachment and infection, but its physiologic functions have not been
 described. In nonpolarized cells, CAR localized to homotypic
 intercellular contacts, mediated homotypic cell aggregation, and
 recruited the tight junction protein ZO-1 to sites of cell–cell
 contact. In polarized epithelial cells, CAR and ZO-1 colocalized to
 tight junctions and could be coprecipitated from cell lysates. CAR
 expression led to reduced passage of macromolecules and ions across
 cell monolayers, and soluble CAR inhibited the formation of functional
 tight junctions. Virus entry into polarized epithelium required
 disruption of tight junctions. These results indicate that CAR is a
 component of the tight junction and of the functional barrier to
 paracellular solute movement. Sequestration of CAR in tight junctions
 may limit virus infection across epithelial surfaces.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To elucidate the clinical importance of estrogen receptor (ER) β
 in breast cancer, 29 archival primary breast cancer specimens, six
 locally recurrent cancers, and five benign mammary tumors were examined
 histochemically for ERα, ERβ and the proliferation markers Ki67 and
 cyclin A. In benign tumors, most epithelial cells contained
 ERβ, but ERα was rare. In primary cancers, both ERα and ERβ
 occurred in epithelial cells, the presence of ERβ being associated
 with elevated expression of Ki67 and cyclin A, and ERα with decreased
 levels. Thus, the highest content of proliferation markers was seen in
 primary cancers that were ERα− ERβ+. Most
 Ki67-containing cells coexpressed ERβ, but few showed ERα. In
 locally recurring cancers, ERα, ERβ, and Ki67 were more highly
 expressed than in the corresponding primary tumors, and many cells
 containing ERβ, but few with ERα, expressed Ki67. Surprisingly,
 ERβ, but not ERα, was seen in the stromal cells of both primary and
 recurrent cancers. Because the response of breast cancers to tamoxifen
 therapy is correlated with the presence of ERα, cancer cells that
 lack ERα but contain ERβ and proliferation markers represent a
 novel population of apparently proliferating cells that probably are
 not targeted by the current antiestrogens. Thus, appropriate
 ERβ-specific ligands, perhaps in combination with tamoxifen, may be
 useful in improving the treatment of breast cancers.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We used hierarchical clustering to examine gene
 expression profiles generated by serial analysis of gene expression
 (SAGE) in a total of nine normal lung epithelial cells and non-small
 cell lung cancers. Separation of normal and tumor, as well as
 histopathological subtypes, was evident by using the 3,921 most
 abundant transcript tags. This distinction remained when only 115
 highly differentially expressed tags were used. Furthermore, these 115
 transcript tags clustered into groups suggestive of the unique
 biological and pathological features of the different tissues examined.
 Adenocarcinomas were characterized by high-level expression of small
 airway-associated or immunologically related proteins, whereas squamous
 cell carcinomas overexpressed genes involved in cellular detoxification
 or antioxidation. The messages of two p53-regulated genes,
 p21WAF1/CIP1and
 14-3-3σ, were consistently underexpressed in the
 adenocarcinomas, suggesting that the p53 pathway itself might be
 compromised in this cancer type. Gene expression patterns observed by
 SAGE were consistent with results obtained by quantitative real-time
 PCR or cDNA array analyses by using a total of 43 lung tumor and normal
 samples. Thus, although derived from only a few tissue libraries, gene
 expression profiles obtained by using SAGE most likely represent an
 unbiased yet distinctive molecular signature for the most common forms
 of human lung cancer.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Autologous serum antibodies to molecules that are aberrantly
 expressed in tumors represent potential biomarkers for early diagnosis
 of cancer. In this study, we identified the homeobox gene
 HOXA7 as encoding an antigen in epithelial tumors of the
 ovary. These tumors are thought to arise from the simple epithelium
 lining the ovarian surface, but they often resemble the specialized
 epithelia derived from the müllerian ducts. Expression of HOXA7
 was detected in ovarian tumors exhibiting müllerian-like features
 and correlated with the generation of anti-HOXA7 antibodies by
 patients. In contrast, it was observed that healthy women lack
 anti-HOXA7 antibodies (P < 0.0001) and that HOXA7
 expression is absent from normal ovarian surface epithelium.
 Interestingly, HOXA7 expression was detected in the
 müllerian-like epithelium lining inclusion cysts in normal
 ovaries and in the müllerian duct-derived epithelium of normal
 fallopian tubes. Furthermore, ectopic expression of
 HOXA7 enhanced the epithelial phenotype of immortalized
 ovarian surface epithelial cells, as indicated by the appearance of
 cobblestone morphology, induction of E-cadherin expression, and
 down-regulation of vimentin. These findings associate aberrant
 HOXA7 expression with the müllerian-like
 differentiation of epithelial ovarian tumors and suggest diagnostic
 utility of serum antibodies to HOXA7.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Plasma xanthine oxidase (XO) activity was defined as a source
 of enhanced vascular superoxide (O) and
 hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) production in both
 sickle cell disease (SCD) patients and knockout-transgenic SCD mice.
 There was a significant increase in the plasma XO activity of SCD
 patients that was similarly reflected in the SCD mouse model. Western
 blot and enzymatic analysis of liver tissue from SCD mice revealed
 decreased XO content. Hematoxylin and eosin staining of liver tissue of
 knockout-transgenic SCD mice indicated extensive hepatocellular injury
 that was accompanied by increased plasma content of the liver enzyme
 alanine aminotransferase. Immunocytochemical and enzymatic analysis of
 XO in thoracic aorta and liver tissue of SCD mice showed increased
 vessel wall and decreased liver XO, with XO concentrated on and in
 vascular luminal cells. Steady-state rates of vascular
 O production, as indicated by coelenterazine
 chemiluminescence, were significantly increased, and nitric oxide
 (⋅NO)-dependent vasorelaxation of aortic ring segments was
 severely impaired in SCD mice, implying oxidative inactivation of
 ⋅NO. Pretreatment of aortic vessels with the superoxide
 dismutase mimetic manganese
 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(N-ethylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin
 markedly decreased O levels and significantly
 restored acetylcholine-dependent relaxation, whereas catalase had no
 effect. These data reveal that episodes of intrahepatic
 hypoxia-reoxygenation associated with SCD can induce the release of XO
 into the circulation from the liver. This circulating XO can then bind
 avidly to vessel luminal cells and impair vascular function by creating
 an oxidative milieu and catalytically consuming ⋅NO via
 O-dependent mechanisms.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mammalian cells are equipped with elaborate systems
 for protection against the toxicity of reactive oxygen and nitrogen
 species and electrophiles that are constant dangers to the integrity
 of their DNA. Phase 2 enzymes (e.g., glutathione
 transferases, NAD(P)H:quinone reductase) and glutathione synthesis are
 widely recognized as playing major protective roles against
 electrophilic carcinogens, but their antioxidant functions have
 attracted far less attention. The cytotoxicities of four oxidative
 stressors (menadione, tert-butyl hydroperoxide,
 4-hydroxynonenal, and peroxynitrite) for human adult retinal pigment
 epithelial cells (ARPE-19) were quantified by measuring the
 concentration dependence of cell death and were expressed as the median
 effect dose (Dm) for each oxidant. After
 treatment of ARPE-19 cells for 24 h with 0–5 μM concentrations
 of sulforaphane (the powerful Phase 2 enzyme inducer isolated from
 broccoli), the toxicities of the oxidants were markedly reduced as
 shown by 1.5- to 3-fold increases in Dm
 values. The magnitude of protection was a function of the nature of the
 oxidants and the concentrations of both the oxidants and sulforaphane.
 Protection was prolonged and persisted for several days after removal
 of sulforaphane before returning to control levels. The
 sulforaphane-dependent increases in specific activities of cytosolic
 quinone reductase and the glutathione levels were highly significantly
 correlated with the degree of protection as measured by
 Dm values. Antioxidant protection was also
 demonstrated for human HaCaT keratinocytes and L1210 murine leukemia
 cells. It is therefore highly likely that the multifaceted and
 prolonged antioxidant protection provided by sulforaphane is a general
 phenomenon that is mediated through induction of the Phase 2
 enzyme response.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Neutralization of HIV-1 primary isolates has been a tremendous
 challenge for AIDS vaccine development. Here, we identify a
 single amino acid change (T198P) in gp120 that alters the
 neutralization sensitivity of the primary isolate DH012 to antibodies
 against multiple neutralization epitopes that include the V3,
 CD4-induced, and CD4 binding sites in gp120. This mutation is located
 in the V1/V2 stem region that forms the third β strand (β3) of
 the bridging sheet of gp120. The conformation of variable loops,
 especially V1/V2 and V3, was proposed to regulate the accessibility
 of these neutralization epitopes. The results of this study indicate a
 direct association between the V1/V2 and V3 loops of DH012 gp120. The
 single amino acid mutation T198P in the β3 severely compromises the
 interaction between the V1/V2 and V3 loops. These results suggest
 that interaction of V1/V2 and V3 can mask the neutralization epitopes
 and that the β3 plays a critical role in determining the
 neutralization sensitivity by modulating the interaction. This
 study provides an insight into why primary isolates are relatively
 resistant to antibody neutralization and might facilitate the
 development of anti-HIV strategies against HIV-1 infection.
DOC DONE!Abstract
By binding to a cis-acting element
 (oriP) in the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) genome, EBV
 nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) enables persistence and enhances
 transcription from EBV episomes. To investigate whether EBNA1 also
 directly affects cell gene transcription, we conditionally expressed a
 Flag-tagged dominant negative EBNA1 (FDNE) in an EBV immortalized
 lymphoblastoid cell line, in which the EBV genome is integrated into
 cell DNA. FDNE induction inhibited expression from an EBNA1-dependent
 oriP reporter plasmid by more than 90% in these cells but did not
 affect expression from integrated EBV or oriP reporter DNA. FDNE
 induction also did not alter expression of more than 1,800 cellular
 mRNAs. Lymphoblastoid cell line growth under a variety of conditions
 was unaffected by FDNE induction. Although Gal4-VP16 and EBNA1 strongly
 activated and coactivated a Gal4-VP16- and oriP-dependent promoter that
 was on an episome, only Gal4-VP16 activated the promoter when it was
 integrated into chromosomal DNA. These data indicate that EBNA1 is
 specifically deficient in activation of an integrated
 oriP enhancer and does not affect cell growth or gene
 expression through an interaction with cognate chromosomal DNA.
DOC DONE!Abstract
In human cells infected by HIV type 1 (HIV-1), the viral Gag
 protein directs the assembly of nascent viral particles at the plasma
 membrane. In murine cells, HIV-1 Gag fails to reach the plasma membrane
 and instead forms nonfunctional intracellular aggregates. The viral
 determinants of this species incompatibility are previously undefined.
 To address this problem, we replaced a region of HIV-1 Gag known to
 direct its localization, the matrix (MA) domain, with functionally
 homologous regions from Moloney murine leukemia virus (MLV), a murine
 retrovirus. An HIV-1 clone carrying such a chimeric Gag protein,
 designated murine HIV (MHIV), assembled more efficiently than
 nonchimeric HIV-1 and restored plasma membrane localization of Gag in
 murine cells. Increased efficiency of viral assembly in murine cells
 was observed from MHIV constructs carrying MLV MA in place of HIV-1 MA.
 Efficient processing of the HIV-1 capsid protein from the chimeric Gag
 polyprotein and subsequent infectivity of MHIV required the presence of
 MLV p12 in addition to MLV MA. These findings strongly suggest that the
 HIV-1 MA domain of HIV-1 Gag is responsible for the assembly defect in
 mouse cells. Although these MHIV do not recruit native HIV-1 Env
 efficiently, they are capable of single-round infection when produced
 by high-efficiency transfection of human 293 cells and provided with an
 HIV-1 Env lacking its cytoplasmic tail. With further adaptation, this
 chimeric MHIV approach may provide the basis for creating an infectious
 mouse model for HIV/AIDS.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Cryptococcus neoformans (Cn) is a
 soil fungus that causes life-threatening meningitis in
 immunocompromised patients and is a facultative intracellular pathogen
 capable of replication inside macrophages. The mechanism by
 which environmental fungi acquire and maintain virulence for mammalian
 hosts is unknown. We hypothesized that the survival strategies for
 Cn after ingestion by macrophages and amoebae were
 similar. Microscopy, fungal and amoebae killing assays, and
 phagocytosis assays revealed that Cn is phagocytosed by
 and replicates in Acanthamoeba castellanii, which leads
 to death of amoebae. An acapsular strain of Cn did not
 survive when incubated with amoebae, but melanization protected these
 cells against killing by amoebae. A phospholipase mutant had a
 decreased replication rate in amoebae compared with isogenic strains.
 These observations suggest that cryptococcal characteristics that
 contribute to mammalian virulence also promote fungal survival in
 amoebae. Intracellular replication was accompanied by the accumulation
 of polysaccharide containing vesicles similar to those described in
 Cn-infected macrophages. The results suggest that the
 virulence of Cn for mammalian cells is a consequence of
 adaptations that have evolved for protection against environmental
 predators such as amoebae and provide an explanation for the broad host
 range of this pathogenic fungus.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The major sensor kinase controlling the initiation of
 development in Bacillus subtilis, KinA, functions
 by activating the phosphorelay signal-transduction system in response
 to as yet unknown signal ligands. KinA contains, within its
 amino-terminal signal-sensing region, three PAS domains that, in other
 proteins, are known to be involved in sensing changes in oxygen
 concentration and redox potential among other functions. The most
 amino-terminal PAS domain, PAS-A, was found to bind ATP and catalyze
 exchange of phosphate between ATP and nucleoside diphosphates. A
 cysteine-to-alanine mutation in PAS-A increased the affinity for ATP
 5-fold, decreased the exchange reaction 2-fold, and stimulated
 KinA-dependent sporulation. A model for the role of ATP and the
 exchange reaction in the PAS domain in sensor kinase signal
 transduction is presented in which the free energy of nucleotide
 hydrolysis drives the conformational changes that activate or
 deactivate the sensor kinase in response to signal ligand binding.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mutants of Escherichia coli unable to use fructose
 by means of the phosphoenolpyruvate/glycose phosphotransferase system
 mutate further to permit growth on that ketose by derepression of a
 manno(fructo)kinase (Mak+ phenotype) present in only trace
 amounts in the parent organisms (Mak-o phenotype). The
 mak gene was located at min 8.8 on the E.
 coli linkage map as an ORF designated yajF, of
 hitherto unknown function; it specifies a deduced polypeptide of 344
 aa. The derepression of Mak activity was associated with a single base
 change at position 71 (codon 24) of the gene, where GCC (alanine) in
 Mak-o has been changed to GAC (aspartate) in Mak+. By
 cloning selected portions of the total 1,032-bp mak gene
 into a plasmid that also carried a temperature-sensitive promoter, we
 showed that the mutation resided in a 117-bp region that does not
 specify sequences necessary for Mak activity but was located 46 bp
 upstream of a 915-bp portion that does. Mak+ and Mak-o
 strains differ greatly in the heat stability of the enzyme: at 61°C,
 mak-o cloned into a mak-o recipient loses
 50% of its activity in approximately 6 min, whereas it takes over 30
 min to achieve a similar reduction in the activity of
 mak+ cloned into a mak-o
 strain. However, the Mak activity of the cloned fragment specifying the
 enzyme without the regulatory region lost activity with a half-life of
 29 min irrespective of whether it was derived from a
 mak+ or a mak-o donor, which
 indicates that the A24D mutation contributes to the high enzyme
 activity of Mak+ mutants by serving to protect Mak from
 denaturation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Several independent experiments suggest that cell walls of
 Bacillus subtilis are protonated during growth.
 When cells were grown in the presence of fluorescein-labeled dextran to
 saturate the cell walls, centrifuged, and suspended in PBS,
 fluorescence-activated cell sorter analyses revealed the
 bacteria were only poorly fluorescent. In contrast, when the bacteria
 were purged with N2 to dissipate protonmotive force (pmf)
 fluorescence became intense. Upon reconstitution of the pmf with
 phenazine methosulfate, glucose, and oxygen, fluorescence declined.
 Another approach used pH-dependent chemical modification of cell walls.
 The walls of respiring B. subtilis cells were amenable
 to carboxylate modification by [14C]ethanolamine and
 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide. The carbodiimide
 activation of carboxylate groups occurs only in acidic conditions. Upon
 dissipation of pmf the walls were refractory to chemical modification.
 Ammonium groups can be condensed with FITC in alkaline medium, but the
 condensation is very slow in acidic buffers. It was found that the
 derivatization of the walls with FITC could occur in the absence of
 pmf. The use of pH-dependent fluorophores and pH-dependent chemical
 modification reactions suggest that cell walls of respiring B.
 subtilis cells have a relatively low pH environment. This
 study shows a bacterium has a protonated compartment.
 Acidification of cell walls during growth may be one means of
 regulating autolytic enzymes.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have developed a simple and efficient procedure for adding an
 epitope-encoding tail to one or more genes of interest in the bacterial
 chromosome. The procedure is a modification of the gene
 replacement method of Datsenko and Wanner [Datsenko, K. A. &
 Wanner, B. L. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97,
 6640–6645]. A DNA module that begins with the epitope-encoding
 sequence and includes a selectable marker is amplified by PCR with
 primers that carry extensions (as short as 36 nt) homologous to the
 last portion of the targeted gene and to a region downstream from it.
 Transformation of a strain expressing bacteriophage λ
 red functions yields recombinants carrying the targeted
 gene fused to the epitope-encoding sequence. The resulting
 C-terminal-tagged protein can be identified by standard
 immuno-detection techniques. In an initial application of the method,
 we have added the sequences encoding the FLAG and 3xFLAG and influenza
 virus hemagglutinin epitopes to various genes of Salmonella
 enterica serovar Typhimurium, including putative and
 established pathogenic determinants present in prophage genomes.
 Epitope fusion proteins were detected in bacteria growing in
 vitro, tissue culture cells, and infected mouse tissues. This
 work identified a prophage locus specifically expressed in
 bacteria growing intracellularly. The procedure described here should
 be applicable to a wide variety of Gram-negative bacteria and is
 particularly suited for the study of intracellular pathogens.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Hepatitis E virus recombinant genomes transcribed in
 vitro from two cDNA clones differing by two nucleotides were
 infectious for chimpanzees. However, one cDNA clone encoded a virus
 that was attenuated for chimpanzees and unable to infect rhesus
 monkeys. The second cDNA clone encoded a virus that infected both
 chimpanzees and rhesus monkeys and caused acute hepatitis in both. One
 mutation differentiating the two clones identified a cis-reactive
 element that appeared to overlap the 3′ end of the capsid gene and part
 of the 3′ noncoding region. Capping of the RNA transcripts was
 essential for infectivity.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Type IV pili (Tfp) of Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the
 Gram-negative etiologic agent of gonorrhea, facilitate colonization of
 the human host. Tfp are assumed to play a key role in the initial
 adherence to human epithelial cells by virtue of the associated adhesin
 protein PilC. To examine the structural and functional basis for
 adherence in more detail, we identified potential genes encoding
 polypeptides sharing structural similarities to PilE (the Tfp subunit)
 within the N. gonorrhoeae genome sequence database. We
 show here that a fiber subunit-like protein, termed PilV, is essential
 to organelle-associated adherence but dispensable for Tfp biogenesis
 and other pilus-related phenotypes, including autoagglutination,
 competence for natural transformation, and twitching motility. The
 adherence defect in pilV mutants cannot be attributed to
 reduced levels of piliation, defects in fiber anchoring to the
 bacterial cell surface, or to unstable pilus expression related to
 organelle retraction. PilV is expressed at low levels relative to PilE
 and copurifies with Tfp fibers in a PilC-dependent fashion. Purified
 Tfp from pilV mutants contain PilC adhesin at reduced
 levels. Taken together, these data support a model in which PilV
 functions in adherence by promoting the functional display of PilC in
 the context of the pilus fiber.
DOC DONE!Abstract
To investigate the regulation of endocytosis by Ca2+,
 we have made capacitance measurements in the synaptic terminal of
 depolarizing bipolar cells from the retina of goldfish. After a
 brief depolarization, all of the excess membrane was retrieved rapidly
 (τ ≈1 s). But when the rise in free [Ca2+] was
 reduced by the introduction of Ca2+ buffers
 [1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N′,N′-tetraacetate
 (BAPTA) or EGTA], a large fraction of the membrane was retrieved by a
 second, slower mechanism (τ ≥ 10 s). The block of fast
 endocytosis by EGTA could be overcome by increasing the amplitude of
 the Ca2+ current, demonstrating that Ca2+
 influx was the trigger for fast endocytosis. These manipulations of the
 Ca2+ signal altered the relative proportions of fast and
 slow endocytosis but did not modulate the rate constants of these
 processes. A brief stimulus that triggered fast endocytosis did not
 generate a significant rise in the spatially averaged
 [Ca2+], indicating that Ca2+ regulated
 endocytosis through an action close to the active zone. The slow mode
 of retrieval occurred at the resting [Ca2+]. These
 results demonstrate that Ca2+ influx couples fast
 endocytosis and exocytosis at this synapse.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Doppel (Dpl) is a paralog of the mammalian prion protein
 (PrP); it is abundant in testes but expressed at low levels in the
 adult central nervous system. In two Prnp-deficient
 (Prnp0/0) mouse lines (Ngsk and Rcm0), Dpl
 overexpression correlated with ataxia and death of cerebellar neurons.
 To determine whether Dpl overexpression, rather than the dysregulation
 of genes neighboring the Prn gene complex, was responsible
 for the ataxic syndrome, we placed the mouse Dpl coding sequence under
 the control of the Prnp promoter and produced transgenic
 (Tg) mice on the Prnp0/0-ZrchI background
 (hereafter referred to as ZrchI). ZrchI mice exhibit neither Dpl
 overexpression nor cerebellar degeneration. In contrast,
 Tg(Dpl)ZrchI mice showed cerebellar granule and Purkinje cell loss;
 the age of onset of ataxia was inversely proportional to the levels of
 Dpl protein. Crosses of Tg mice overexpressing wild-type PrP with two
 lines of Tg(Dpl)ZrchI mice resulted in a phenotypic rescue of the
 ataxic syndrome, while Dpl overexpression was unchanged. Restoration of
 PrP expression also rendered the Tg(Dpl) mice susceptible to prion
 infection, with incubation times indistinguishable from non-Tg
 controls. Whereas the rescue of Dpl-induced neurotoxicity by
 coexpression of PrP argues for an interaction between the PrP and Dpl
 proteins in vivo, the unaltered incubation times in Tg mice
 overexpressing Dpl in the central nervous system suggest that Dpl is
 unlikely to be involved in prion formation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
It was recently proposed that in Jurkat cells, after inhibition of
 respiration by NO, glycolytically generated ATP plays a critical role
 in preventing the collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential
 (Δψm) and thus apoptotic cell death. We
 have investigated this observation further in primary cultures of rat
 cortical neurons and astrocytes—cell types that differ greatly in
 their glycolytic capacity. Continuous and significant (≈85%)
 inhibition of respiration by NO (1.4 μM at 175 μM O2)
 generated by
 [(z)-1-[2-aminoethyl]-N-[2-ammonioethyl]amino]diazen-1-ium-1,2
 diolate (DETA-NO) initially (10 min) depleted ATP concentrations by
 ≈25% in both cell types and increased the rate of glycolysis in
 astrocytes but not in neurons. Activation of glycolysis in astrocytes,
 as judged by lactate production, prevented further ATP depletion,
 whereas in neurons, which do not invoke this mechanism, there was a
 progressive decrease in ATP concentrations over the next 60 min. During
 this time, there was a persistent mitochondrial hyperpolarization and
 absence of apoptotic cell death in astrocytes, whereas in the
 neurons there was a progressive fall in Δψm and
 increased apoptosis. After glucose deprivation or treatment
 with inhibitors of the F1F0-ATPase and adenine
 nucleotide translocase, astrocytes responded to NO with a fall in
 Δψm and apoptotic cell death similar to the
 response in neurons. Finally, although treatment of astrocytes with NO
 partially prevented staurosporin-induced collapse in
 Δψm and cell death, NO and staurosporin synergized in
 decreasing Δψm and inducing apoptosis in
 neurons. These results demonstrate that although inhibition of cellular
 respiration by NO leads to neurotoxicity, it may also result in initial
 neuroprotection, depending on the glycolytic capacity of the particular
 cell.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Phosphatidic acid produced by phospholipase D (PLD) as a result of
 signaling activity is thought to play a role in membrane vesicle
 trafficking, either as an intracellular messenger or as a cone-shaped
 lipid that promotes membrane fusion. We recently described that, in
 neuroendocrine cells, plasma membrane-associated PLD1 operates at a
 stage of Ca2+-dependent exocytosis subsequent to
 cytoskeletal-mediated recruitment of secretory granules to exocytotic
 sites. We show here that PLD1 also plays a crucial role in
 neurotransmitter release. Using purified rat brain synaptosomes
 subjected to hypotonic lysis and centrifugation, we found that PLD1 is
 associated with the particulate fraction containing the plasma
 membrane. Immunostaining of rat cerebellar granule cells confirmed
 localization of PLD1 at the neuronal plasma membrane in zones
 specialized for neurotransmitter release (axonal neurites,
 varicosities, and growth cone-like structures). To determine the
 potential involvement of PLD1 in neurotransmitter release, we
 microinjected catalytically inactive PLD1(K898R) into
 Aplysia neurons and analyzed its effects on evoked
 acetylcholine (ACh) release. PLD1(K898R) produced a fast and potent
 dose-dependent inhibition of ACh release. By analyzing paired-pulse
 facilitation and postsynaptic responses evoked by high-frequency
 stimulations, we found that the exocytotic inhibition caused by
 PLD1(K898R) was not the result of an alteration in stimulus-secretion
 coupling or in vesicular trafficking. Analysis of the fluctuations in
 amplitude of the postsynaptic responses revealed that the PLD1(K898R)
 blocked ACh release by reducing the number of active
 presynaptic-releasing sites. Our results provide evidence that PLD1
 plays a major role in neurotransmission, most likely by controlling the
 fusogenic status of presynaptic release sites.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Globins are oxygen-binding heme proteins present in bacteria,
 protists, fungi, plants, and animals. Their functions have diverged
 widely in evolution, and include binding, transport, scavenging,
 detoxification, and sensing of gases like oxygen, nitric oxide, and
 carbon monoxide. Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered monomeric
 globin with high affinity for oxygen and preferential localization to
 vertebrate brain. No function for Ngb is known, but its affinity for
 oxygen and its expression in cerebral neurons suggest a role in
 neuronal responses to hypoxia or ischemia. Here we report that Ngb
 expression is increased by neuronal hypoxia in vitro and
 focal cerebral ischemia in vivo, and that neuronal
 survival after hypoxia is reduced by inhibiting Ngb expression with an
 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide and enhanced by Ngb overexpression. Both
 induction of Ngb and its protective effect show specificity for hypoxia
 over other stressors. We conclude that hypoxia-inducible Ngb expression
 helps promote neuronal survival from hypoxic-ischemic insults.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Acetylcholine serves an important modulatory role in the central
 nervous system. Pharmacological evidence has suggested that
 cholinergic activity can modulate central dopaminergic transmission;
 however, the nature of this interaction and the receptors involved
 remain undefined. In this study we have generated mice lacking the M1
 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor and examined the effects of M1
 deletion on dopaminergic transmission and locomotor behavior. We report
 that M1 deficiency leads to elevated dopaminergic transmission in the
 striatum and significantly increased locomotor activity. M1-deficient
 mice also have an increased response to the stimulatory effects of
 amphetamine. Our results provide direct evidence for regulation of
 dopaminergic transmission by the M1 receptor and are consistent with
 the idea that M1 dysfunction could be a contributing factor in
 psychiatric disorders in which altered dopaminergic transmission has
 been implicated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Mitochondria and cytochrome c release play a
 role in the death of neurons and glia after cerebral ischemia. In the
 present study, we investigated whether BID, a proapoptotic
 promoter of cytochrome c release and caspase 8
 substrate, was expressed in brain, activated after an ischemic insult
 in vivo and in vitro, and contributed to
 ischemic cell death. We detected BID in the cytosol of mouse brain and
 primary cultured mouse neurons and demonstrated, by using recombinant
 caspase 8, that neuronal BID also is a caspase 8 substrate. After
 2 h of oxygen/glucose deprivation, BID cleavage was
 detected in neurons concurrent with caspase 8 activation but before
 caspase 3 cleavage. Bid−/− neurons were
 resistant to death after oxygen/glucose deprivation, and caspase 3
 cleavage was significantly reduced; however, caspase 8 cleavage did not
 differ from wild type. In vivo, BID was cleaved 4 h
 after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Infarct volumes and
 cytochrome c release also were less in
 Bid−/− mice (−67% and −41%, respectively)
 after mild focal ischemia. These findings suggest that BID and
 the mitochondrial-amplification pathway promoting caspase activation
 contributes importantly to neuronal cell death after ischemic insult.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) buffer and remove
 synaptically released l-glutamate and maintain its
 concentrations below neurotoxic levels. EAATs also mediate a
 thermodynamically uncoupled substrate-gated anion conductance that may
 modulate cell excitability. Here, we demonstrate that modification of a
 cysteine substituted within a C-terminal domain of EAAT1 abolishes
 transport in both the forward and reverse directions without affecting
 activation of the anion conductance. EC50s for
 l-glutamate and sodium are significantly lower after
 modification, consistent with kinetic models of the transport cycle
 that link anion channel gating to an early step in substrate
 translocation. Also, decreasing the pH from 7.5 to 6.5 decreases the
 EC50 for l-glutamate to activate the anion
 conductance, without affecting the EC50 for the entire
 transport cycle. These findings demonstrate for the first time a
 structural separation of transport and the uncoupled anion flux.
 Moreover, they shed light on some controversial aspects of the EAAT
 transport cycle, including the kinetics of proton binding and anion
 conductance activation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Thalamic neurons have two firing modes: tonic and bursting.
 It was originally suggested that bursting occurs only during states
 such as slow-wave sleep, when little or no information is relayed by
 the thalamus. However, bursting occurs during wakefulness in the
 visual and somatosensory thalamus, and could theoretically influence
 sensory processing. Here we used chronically implanted electrodes to
 record from the ventroposterior medial thalamic nucleus (VPM) and
 primary somatosensory cortex (SI) of awake, freely moving rats during
 different behaviors. These behaviors included quiet immobility,
 exploratory whisking (large-amplitude whisker movements), and whisker
 twitching (small-amplitude, 7- to 12-Hz whisker movements). We
 demonstrated that thalamic bursting appeared during the oscillatory
 activity occurring before whisker twitching movements, and continued
 throughout the whisker twitching. Further, thalamic bursting occurred
 during whisker twitching substantially more often than during the other
 behaviors, and a neuron was most likely to respond to a stimulus if a
 burst occurred ≈120 ms before the stimulation. In addition, the
 amount of cortical area activated was similar to that during whisking.
 However, when SI was inactivated by muscimol infusion, whisker
 twitching was never observed. Finally, we used a statistical technique
 called partial directed coherence to identify the direction of
 influence of neural activity between VPM and SI, and observed that
 there was more directional coherence from SI to VPM during whisker
 twitching than during the other behaviors. Based on these findings, we
 propose that during whisker twitching, a descending signal from SI
 triggers thalamic bursting that primes the thalamocortical loop for
 enhanced signal detection during the whisker twitching behavior.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We have studied the function of the major central olfactory
 pathway in fruit flies. Key elements of this pathway, the projection
 neurons (PNs), connect the antennal lobes with the lateral
 protocerebrum both directly and indirectly, the latter via the mushroom
 bodies (MBs). Transgenic expression of tetanus toxin in the majority of
 PNs and few MB neurons leads to defects in odor detection and male
 courtship. Considering behavioral data from flies lacking MBs, our
 results argue that the direct PN-to-lateral protocerebrum pathway is
 necessary and sufficient to process these experience-independent
 behaviors. Moreover, the involvement of an olfactory pathway in male
 courtship suggests a role of volatile attractive female pheromones in
 Drosophila.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The neuronal nucleus plays a vital role in information
 processing, but whether it supports computational functions such as
 paired-pulse facilitation, comparable to synapses, is unclear.
 Ca2+-dependent movement of calmodulin (CaM) to
 the nucleus is highly responsive to Ca2+ entry through
 L-type channels and promotes activation of the transcription factor
 CREB (cAMP-responsive element binding protein) through phosphorylation
 by CaM-sensitive kinases. We characterized key features of this CaM
 translocation and its possible role in facilitation of nuclear
 signaling. Nuclear CaM was elevated within 15 s of stimulus onset,
 preceding the first signs of CREB phosphorylation in hippocampal
 pyramidal neurons. Depolarization-induced elevation of nuclear CaM also
 was observed in cerebellar granule cells, neocortical neurons, and
 dentate gyrus granule cells. Nuclear translocation of CaM was not
 blocked by disruption of actin filaments or microtubules, or by
 emptying endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ stores with
 thapsigargin. Translocation of fluorescently tagged CaM was prevented
 by fusing it with the Ca2+/CaM binding peptide M13,
 suggesting that nuclear CaM accumulation depends on association with
 endogenous Ca2+/CaM binding proteins. To
 determine whether increased nuclear [CaM] might influence subsequent
 nuclear signal processing, we compared responses to two consecutive
 depolarizing stimuli. After a weak “priming” stimulus that caused
 CaM translocation, CREB phosphorylation caused by a subsequent stimulus
 was significantly faster, more sensitive to Ca2+ elevation,
 and less specifically dependent on Ca2+ influx through
 L-type channels. CaM translocation not only supports rapid signaling to
 the nucleus, but also could provide a “memory” for facilitatory
 effects of repeated neural activity, seen in altered phosphorylated
 CREB dynamics and Ca2+ channel dependence.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Inactivation is a fundamental characteristic of Na+
 channels, and small changes cause skeletal muscle paralysis and
 myotonia, epilepsy, and cardiac arrhythmia. Brain
 Nav1.2a channels have faster inactivation than cardiac
 Nav1.5 channels, but minor differences in inactivation gate
 structure are not responsible. We constructed chimeras in which the C
 termini beyond the fourth homologous domains of Nav1.2a and
 Nav1.5 were exchanged. Replacing the C-terminal domain (CT)
 of Nav1.2a with that of Nav1.5
 (Nav1.2/1.5CT) slowed inactivation at +40 mV ≈2-fold,
 making it similar to Nav1.5. Conversely, replacing the CT
 of Nav1.5 with that of Nav1.2a (Nav1.5/1.2CT)
 accelerated inactivation, making it similar to Nav1.2a.
 Activation properties were unaffected. The voltage dependence of
 steady-state inactivation of Nav1.5 is 16 mV more negative
 than that of Nav1.2a. The steady-state inactivation curve
 of Nav1.2a was shifted +12 mV in
 Nav1.2/1.5CT, consistent with destabilization of the
 inactivated state. Conversely, Nav1.5/1.2CT was shifted
 −14 mV relative to Nav1.5, consistent with stabilization
 of the inactivated state. Although these effects of exchanging C
 termini were consistent with their effects on inactivation kinetics,
 they magnified the differences in the voltage dependence of
 inactivation between brain and cardiac channels rather than
 transferring them. Thus, other parts of these channels determine the
 basal difference in steady-state inactivation. Deletion of the distal
 half of either the Nav1.2 or Nav1.5 CTs
 accelerated open-state inactivation and negatively shifted steady-state
 inactivation. Thus, the C terminus has a strong influence on kinetics
 and voltage dependence of inactivation in brain
 Nav1.2 and cardiac Nav1.5 channels and is
 primarily responsible for their differing rates of channel
 inactivation.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The midgut of mosquito larvae maintains a specific lumen
 alkalinization profile with large longitudinal gradients (pH
 ≈ 3 units⋅mm−1) in which an extremely alkaline
 (pH ≈ 11) anterior midgut lies between near-neutral posterior
 midgut and gastric cecum (pH 7–8). A plasma membrane
 H+ V-ATPase energizes this alkalinization but the ion
 carriers involved are unknown. Capillary zone electrophoresis of body
 samples with outlet conductivity detection showed a specific
 transepithelial distribution of chloride and bicarbonate/carbonate
 ions, with high concentrations of both anions in the midgut tissue:
 68.3 ± 5.64 and 50.8 ± 4.21 mM, respectively. Chloride was
 higher in the hemolymph, 57.6 ± 7.84, than in the lumen,
 3.51 ± 2.58, whereas bicarbonate was higher in the lumen,
 58.1 ± 7.34, than the hemolymph, 3.96 ± 2.89.
 Time-lapse video assays of pH profiles in vivo
 revealed that ingestion of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor
 acetazolamide and the ion exchange inhibitor DIDS
 (4,4′-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid), at
 10−4 M eliminates lumen alkalinization. Basal application
 of these inhibitors in situ also reduced gradients
 recorded with self-referencing pH-sensitive microelectrodes near the
 basal membrane by ≈65% and 85% respectively. Self-referencing
 chloride-selective microelectrodes revealed a specific spatial profile
 of transepithelial chloride transport with an efflux maximum in
 anterior midgut. Both acetazolamide and DIDS reduced chloride effluxes.
 These data suggest that an H+ V-ATPase-energized anion
 exchange occurs across the apical membrane of the epithelial cells and
 implicate an electrophoretic Cl−/HCO
 exchanger and carbonic anhydrase as crucial components of the
 steady-state alkalinization in anterior midgut of mosquito larvae.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Tetrahydrofolate coenzymes involved in one-carbon (C1) metabolism
 are polyglutamylated. In organisms that synthesize tetrahydrofolate
 de novo, dihydrofolate synthetase (DHFS) and
 folylpolyglutamate synthetase (FPGS) catalyze the attachment of
 glutamate residues to the folate molecule. In this study we isolated
 cDNAs coding a DHFS and three isoforms of FPGS from Arabidopsis
 thaliana. The function of each enzyme was demonstrated
 by complementation of yeast mutants deficient in DHFS or FPGS activity,
 and by measuring in vitro glutamate incorporation into
 dihydrofolate or tetrahydrofolate. DHFS is present exclusively in the
 mitochondria, making this compartment the sole site of synthesis of
 dihydrofolate in the plant cell. In contrast, FPGS is present as
 distinct isoforms in the mitochondria, the cytosol, and the
 chloroplast. Each isoform is encoded by a separate gene, a situation
 that is unique among eukaryotes. The compartmentation of FPGS isoforms
 is in agreement with the predominance of γ-glutamyl-conjugated
 tetrahydrofolate derivatives and the presence of serine
 hydroxymethyltransferase and C1-tetrahydrofolate interconverting
 enzymes in the cytosol, the mitochondria, and the plastids. Thus, the
 combination of FPGS with these folate-mediated reactions can supply
 each compartment with the polyglutamylated folate coenzymes required
 for the reactions of C1 metabolism. Also, the multicompartmentation of
 FPGS in the plant cell suggests that the transported forms of folate
 are unconjugated.
DOC DONE!Abstract
The mutualistic symbiosis between flowering plants and arbuscular
 mycorrhizal fungi is extremely abundant in terrestrial
 ecosystems. In this symbiosis, obligately biotrophic fungi
 colonize the root of the host plants, which can benefit from these
 fungi by enhanced access to mineral nutrients in the soil, especially
 phosphorus. One of the main goals of research on this symbiosis is to
 find plant genes that control fungal development in the host plant. In
 this work, we show that mycorrhizal colonization is regulated by
 enod40, an early nodulin gene known to be involved in
 the nodule symbiosis of legumes with nitrogen-fixing bacteria.
 Medicago truncatula plants overexpressing
 enod40 exhibited stimulated mycorrhizal colonization in
 comparison with control plants. Overexpression of enod40
 promoted fungal growth in the root cortex and increased the frequency
 of arbuscule formation. Transgenic lines with suppressed levels of
 enod40 transcripts, likely via a cosuppression
 phenomenon induced by the transgene, exhibited reduced mycorrhizal
 colonization. Hence, enod40 might be a plant
 regulatory gene involved in the control of the mycorrhizal
 symbiosis.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Self-incompatibility (SI) is a genetic mechanism that restricts
 inbreeding in flowering plants. In the nightshade family
 (Solanaceae) SI is controlled by a single multiallelic S
 locus. Pollen rejection in this system requires the interaction of two
 S locus products: a stylar (S)-RNase and its
 pollen counterpart (pollen S). pollen S has not yet been
 cloned. Our understanding of how this gene functions comes from studies
 of plants with mutations that affect the pollen but not the stylar SI
 response (pollen-part mutations). These mutations are frequently
 associated with duplicated S alleles, but the absence of
 an obvious additional allele in some plants suggests pollen
 S can also be deleted. We studied Nicotiana
 alata plants with an additional S allele and
 show that duplication causes a pollen-part mutation in several
 different genetic backgrounds. Inheritance of the duplication was
 consistent with a competitive interaction model in which any two
 nonmatching S alleles cause a breakdown of SI when
 present in the same pollen grain. We also examined plants with presumed
 deletions of pollen S and found that they instead have
 duplications that included pollen S but not the S-RNase
 gene. This finding is consistent with a bipartite structure for the
 S locus. The absence of pollen S
 deletions in this study and perhaps other studies suggests that
 pollen S might be required for pollen viability,
 possibly because its product acts as an S-RNase inhibitor.
DOC DONE!Abstract
Ran is a small signaling GTPase that is involved in
 nucleocytoplasmic transport. Two additional functions of animal Ran in
 the formation of spindle asters and the reassembly of the nuclear
 envelope in mitotic cells have been recently reported. In contrast to
 Ras or Rho, Ran is not associated with membranes. Instead, the spatial
 sequestering of its accessory proteins, the Ran GTPase-activating
 protein RanGAP and the nucleotide exchange factor RCC1, appears to
 define the local concentration of RanGTP vs. RanGDP involved in
 signaling. Mammalian RanGAP is bound to the nuclear pore by a mechanism
 involving the attachment of small ubiquitin-related modifier
 protein (SUMO) to its C terminus and the subsequent binding of
 the SUMOylated domain to the nucleoporin Nup358. Here we show that
 plant RanGAP utilizes a different mechanism for nuclear envelope
 association, involving a novel targeting domain that appears to be
 unique to plants. The N-terminal WPP domain is highly conserved among
 plant RanGAPs and the small, plant-specific nuclear envelope-associated
 protein MAF1, but not present in yeast or animal RanGAP. Confocal laser
 scanning microscopy of green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins
 showed that it is necessary for RanGAP targeting and sufficient to
 target the heterologous protein GFP to the plant nuclear rim. The
 highly conserved tryptophan and proline residues of the WPP motif are
 necessary for its function. The 110-aa WPP domain is the first
 nuclear-envelope targeting domain identified in plants. Its fundamental
 difference to its mammalian counterpart implies that different
 mechanisms have evolved in plants and animals to anchor RanGAP at the
 nuclear surface.
DOC DONE!Abstract
We propose a stochastic model of aging to explain deviations from
 exponential growth in mortality rates commonly observed in empirical
 studies. Mortality rate plateaus are explained as a generic consequence
 of considering death in terms of first passage times for processes
 undergoing a random walk with drift. Simulations of populations with
 age-dependent distributions of viabilities agree with a wide array of
 experimental results. The influence of cohort size is well accounted
 for by the stochastic nature of the model.
DOC DONE!